LIMPOPO – The search continues for two gunmen who shot and killed a tavern assistant in cold blood at Tshiozwi village outside Louis Trichardt in the early hours of June 18. According to police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, the incident occurred at around midnight when the assistant and his manager closed the tavern for the night and headed for the house next to the tavern with the day’s cash. As they opened the gate between the house and the tavern, they were accosted by two men wearing balaclavas, who demanded the money. The tavern manager handed over the money, and fled while the assistant stayed behind. You might also want to read: Limpopo police arrest wanted parolee following shooting at tavern The tavern manager is said to have watched helplessly from his hiding place as the robbers opened fire on the assistant, killing him and fled the scene with an undisclosed amount. Preliminary police investigations revealed that the deceased, Simbarashe Mutambadiki (34), had four bullet wounds to his body. Mojapelo said that the tavern manager had been highly traumatised by the incident. He confirmed that a case of murder was being investigated and that the two suspects were still at large. Mojapelo said that the police will work around the clock to see the robbers behind bars soon. One of the community members, who wished to remain anonymous, said they heard gunshots in the night. “We heard the gunshots but did not know where they came from. Shortly thereafter, we received the terrible news and rushed to the scene where the tavern assistant was killed. This is a hard time for us all. The man could not even hurt a fly, but they decided to kill him anyway. We are leaving everything in God’s hands and strongly believe that the police will do their job and apprehend the killers.” He added that the community and businesspeople did not feel safe at all after the incident. The uncle of the deceased, Gilbert Mutambadiki, said the incident had left the family in a state of shock and confusion. “Imagine having seen your family member a few hours ago, healthy and strong, and all of a sudden being notified that he is dead!” He said that the family now wished to see the law take its course. “We want to see severe punishment. These men have to pay for what they have done,” he said. Vhamusanda Vho-Makhado Sinthumule said that they were just hoping that the police would be doing their part in making sure that the culprits were brought to book. “As leaders, we are concerned about the death of defenceless people. We feel that the community must stand up and join the police in the fight against crime. We cannot just sit down and watch while our people are killed,” he said. Mojapelo made an appeal to anyone who might have information relating to the incident or suspects to contact them on 08600 10111, or visit or contact their nearest police station. The police promised to treat any information with confidentiality. 