Although the overall vehicle dimensions are similar to those of the previous model, the new HR-V offers greater leg and shoulder room. The well-known centre tank configuration also allows Honda to retain the exceptionally versatile rear Magic Seat set-up, that offers both fold-flat or flip-up seat flexibility, depending on the load space required. A host of brand-new features are also now available on the new HR-V, elevating the driver experience with unrivalled levels of comfort and utility. Important SUV attributes, such as loading convenience, are enhanced by a hands-free Power Tailgate with Walk Away Close function. The smart key proximity function detects when the key is moving away from the car, to automatically start closing the tailgate. Storage space and connectivity points around the cabin have also been improved. Exclusive to the top-of-the-range Executive model is a distinctive panoramic glass roof that allows natural light to fill the cabin and add to the open airy atmosphere. The panoramic roof also features new “Low-E” glass technology that reduces the intensity of infrared, ultraviolet and solar heat rays entering the cabin by 75%, allowing occupants to enjoy the outside world in comfort.  Engineered for the joy of driving Honda’s engineers analysed every detail of the HR-V driving experience to maximise driver enjoyment and comfort. Honda’s Agile Handling Assist (AHA) system further improves the dynamic stability of the car, particularly when reacting to fast steering inputs or high cornering loads, such as emergency avoidance manoeuvres. AHA operates through the Vehicle Stability Assist (VSA) system and lightly applies the brakes to the inner wheels when the steering wheel is turned. The result is increased vehicle responsiveness and stability, and a more stable and predictable driving experience. The new HR-V is equipped with Honda’s 1.5-litre DOHC i-VTEC petrol engine generating a power output of 89kW and 145Nm. This new 1.5-litre powertrain is powerful and efficient, with a fuel consumption figure of just 6L/100km and a CO2 emission figure of 144g/km. Assured stopping power is delivered by a powerful braking system featuring 293mm ventilated front discs and 282mm solid discs at the rear. Furthermore, electronic brake systems include Vehicle Stability Assist (VSA), Brake Assist System (BAS), Hill Start Assist (HSA) and Automatic Brake Hold (ABH). Hill Descent Control, available for the first time in South Africa on the HR-V, operates from a minimum speed of just 3km/h. This technology enables greater and smoother control on low-grip surfaces and steep descents to increase driving confidence in a wider range of conditions.  New infotainment system Another exciting addition to the newcomer is the high resolution 8″ touch-screen display audio that has been neatly integrated into the instrument panel. It gives users full functionality of a smartphone via Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Bluetooth is included and can be controlled via remote controls on the steering wheel. Passengers can also enjoy their favourite playlists through Honda’s new high-quality audio system, with four speakers available on the Comfort model and a total of eight speakers on the top-of-the-range Executive. A comprehensive suite of Honda safety technologies The all-new HR-V features a suite of premium active and passive safety technologies designed to make driving easier and safer. The HR-V incorporates Honda’s proprietary Advanced Compatibility Engineering (ACE) body structure technology that forms the foundation for excellent passive safety performance, enhancing occupant crash protection. The HR-V features front, side and curtain SRS airbags. The Executive offers six SRS airbags, while the Comfort derivative offers four SRS airbags.  Enhanced Honda Sensing active safety technology, available exclusively on the HR-V Executive model, offers a broad range of driver assistance features and driver aids as standard. This incorporates Collision Mitigation Braking System (CMBS) with improved night-time operation to detect pedestrians when there is no street lighting, Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), Lane Keeping Assist System (LKAS), Road Departure Mitigation (RDM) and Auto High-Beam (AHB) switching.  Model range and pricing The all-new HR-V range will launch with two models available with exclusively 1.5L Petrol CVT, with pricing starting at R469 000 for the Comfort and R554 500 for the Executive model. This includes a five-year/200 000km warranty and a four-year/60 000km service plan. Also included on all models is a three-year AA roadside assistance for additional peace of mind. Source: QuickPic