Many parents feel nervous about deciding which formula is best for their baby. Perhaps they are completely overwhelmed by the options. Or they’ve tried a formula and are unsure whether it’s causing their child’s stomach issues or skin problems. No parent deserves the anxiety associated with feeding. First, please take a deep breath. There is no incorrect option! There is no ideal recipe. There is no such thing as a “bad” formula. There are simply various alternatives within each ingredient category. 98 percent of infant formula consists of protein, carbohydrates, and fat. Protein and carbs have the greatest impact on your baby’s digestion, thus experts advise parents to select a formula based on these components. The most generally used infant formula comprises of purified cow’s milk whey and casein as a source of protein, a mixture of vegetable oils as a source of fat, lactose as a source of carbohydrates, a vitamin-mineral blend, and other components depending on the manufacturer. When selecting a baby formula: Experts discourage the use of homemade baby formulas. Using homemade infant formula can result in major health complications for your child, particularly in the first year of life when your infant has specific nutritional needs. Additionally, a homemade infant formula may have a higher chance of contamination, which might cause your infant to become ill or acquire an infection. There are claims that “natural” or “organic” infant formulas available in other countries are more beneficial for infants. However, there is no scientific proof that these infant formulae are superior to those sold commercially in South Africa. Reflux, or recurrent spitting up, is unpleasant for both parent and baby. Sadly, there is no magic pill to make it go. However, you may want to pick a formula with a high whey percentage. The thickened formula will make the stomach contents heavier and harder to regurgitate, which means they’re less likely to come back up. Alternatively, soybean-derived baby formula is free of lactose and cow’s milk protein, making it a good choice for babies who could be lactose intolerant. Hypoallergenic formula is specifically formulated to help prevent allergic reactions in babies. It has also been demonstrated that partially hydrolyzed protein formula aids baby eczema. If your child suffers from constipation, consult your physician about switching to a formula without palm oil. Palm oil might cause the stools of infants to become firmer and may exacerbate constipation.