That’s what the latest Galaxy S22 Series is aiming for. Featuring the Galaxy S22, S22+ and Galaxy S22 Ultra, a powerhouse of productivity, super-fast processing capabilities and unexpected possibilities is now yours to explore.  What you’ll first notice is that the camera quality is simply out of this world, delivering superior results day or night. The amazing Galaxy S22 pro-grade camera is designed to let in more light and draw out details, helping to create vivid images that you’ll absolutely love. It also captures colours that make your content pop, even in the dark[1].It’s bye-bye to less-than-perfect videos and pictures. Now, you’ll want to share everything you capture. Did somebody say “Group shot”? Simply use the new Auto Framing[2] feature which detects and tracks up to 10 people and automatically adjusts the camera’s focus, so everyone is captured. The Galaxy S22 Series is also the first Galaxy smartphones to feature new Corning® Gorilla® Glass Victus®+, giving you absolute confidence in its abilities to withstand life’s bumps in the road. With its sublime design and eye-catching displays protected, you’ll really appreciate its durability. And the battery life? You can enjoy capturing and connecting without thinking about the nearest power outlet.  The Galaxy S22 Series has an all-day battery[3] and 25W and 45W fast charging[4]. Now that’s a package of mobile perfection ready to rise to every challenge you set it. [1] Adaptive Pixel only works with high resolution photos, not at basic resolution. [2] Auto Framing only available in Video mode. Auto Framing must be enabled before recording. Certain resolutions and ratios may not be supported. Certain functions may not be available when Auto Framing is on. Only people can be recognized, and there is a limit to how many people may be recognized. Available on Samsung Camera, BlueJeans, Google Duo, Meta Messenger, Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, Cisco Webex Meet, and Zoom. Auto-framing available on select lenses. [3] Estimated against the usage profile of an average/typical user. Independently assessed by Strategy Analytics between 2021.12.08–12.20 in USA and UK with pre-release versions of SM-S901, SM-S906, SM-S908 under default setting using 5G Sub6 networks (NOT tested under 5G mmWave network). Actual battery life varies by network environment, features and apps used, frequency of calls and messages, number of times charged, and many other factors. [4]Wall charger sold separately; use only Samsung-approved chargers and cables. To avoid injury or damage to your device, do not use incompatible, worn or damaged batteries, chargers or cables.