“As part of our planning towards the introduction of our fully electric Audi e-tron model range, we consulted with the Department of Cooperative Governance and the National Disaster Management Centre in South Africa and identified a need to progress the education and information of electric vehicles (EV) to first responders. These individuals, like paramedics and fire services, play a vital role in the safety and security of South African drivers and with the growing transition towards e-mobility, there was definitely an important responsibility on our part to bring these teams along with our local EV transition or journey,” explained Sascha Sauer, head of Audi South Africa.  The training facilitated a programme to “train the trainer”, with South African National Fire and Emergency Services, enabling the team of trainees to be in a position to adequately handle electric vehicle incidents on South African roads. The classroom-based training content included education and awareness of EV product features; technicalities of charging; and battery operations and safety guidelines to handling an electrically operated vehicle in comparison to an internal combustion engine. Attendees were also exposed to Audi’s recently launched Audi e-tron models through a practical exercise based on global best training practices. “With the arrival of more and more electric vehicles on our roads and across the country, the training of this nature was invaluable to our first responder teams. It is great to see that the future of automotive is taking place in South Africa and that our teams are seen as important stakeholders in this new era. Thank you to Audi to exposing us to this new topic,” said the acting director of fire services, Thibedi Jappie Lengoabala.  “EVs are increasing in popularity and will have an extensive presence on our roads within the next five years. While EVs will present new and unique challenges to our emergency services, there are effective ways to ensure safe and operative responses to any EV-related incident. Skilled and qualified personnel is key to all of this. Audi is proud to start the educational training process with our fire and emergency services teams, helping to keep them and South Africans safe on the roads. Understanding the basic EV construction and technicalities will empower emergency and fire services to react with confidence while saving lives, but also limiting as much damage as possible to the vehicle,” concluded Sauer. Source: MotorPress