Suzuki will offer four models within the Boleno range. Many of its design language’s foundational elements, such as the mix of organic and dynamic lines, large and striking lights and a purposeful stance, are a refinement of the liquid flow philosophy that was seen on the previous Baleno. The Suzuki designers then added new design elements, including a wider front air intake, a three-dimensional grille design and flowing body lines that connect with the chrome brightwork in one continuous swoop, that not only create a fresh new look for the Baleno, but also signals what is to come for other Suzuki models. The design also applies to the new interior, where a multilayered dashboard creates the impression of space. There are also more comfortable and contoured seats, which are both functional and visually appealing, and with higher-grade cloth upholstery.  Best-in-class specifications
Suzuki Baleno GL – Auto and Manual For the all-new model, Suzuki has added even more specifications to both the GL and GLX range, making it the uncontested luxury leader in its market. Most importantly, the boost in specifications was not only kept for the GLX model. In the Suzuki Baleno GL manual and automatic versions, Suzuki has added climate control with rear air vents instead of the previously used air conditioning system. The vents are mounted at the back of the new centre armrest with a storage box between the front occupants. The GL further benefits from the addition of electrically adjustable and foldable side mirrors, cruise control and three USB ports (a type A port in front and a type A and type C port in the rear). Other standard features on this model include remote central locking, rear parking sensors, a 12V accessory socket and of course the much-loved 7” full-colour Suzuki infotainment system with Bluetooth connectivity. The infotainment system will display information from the in-built reverse camera, and it has Apple CarPlay and Android Auto built-in. The system can be controlled from the controls on the leather-clad steering wheel. Safety and security in the GL specification level are also very well taken care of with dual front airbags, electronic stability programme (ESP), Isofix child seat anchors and an alarm and immobiliser as standard. Hill hold assistance is also standard on the Baleno, starting at the entry-level GL specification.  Suzuki Baleno GLX – Auto and Manual In the Suzuki Baleno GLX, the number of luxuries is boosted to a level previously unheard of in this segment including first-in-segment features such as a head-up display, a full 360-degree round view monitor with side, front and rear-mounted cameras that display a bird’s eye view of the vehicle’s surroundings when parking or manoeuvring at low speeds. The GLX further has LED projector-style headlamps and LED daytime running lights and 16” polished alloy wheels. The new head-up display offers an array of information from a pop-up screen than neatly retracts into the dashboard when not used. The 7” infotainment system found in the Baleno GL models is further replaced with a high-resolution 9” system with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. The system also has added smart vehicle alerts and of course Bluetooth connectivity with steering controls.
Suzuki has added a second full-colour 4.2” display in the instrument cluster where the driver can view a range of vehicle information sources. The GLX also adds additional interior lighting in the footwells and luggage area, and puddle lighting in the doors, chrome detailing on the door handles and it replaces the standard ignition of the GL with a keyless system with a start/stop button. To add to the already high safety credentials of the Baleno GL, Suzuki has added four more airbags (front side airbags and full-length curtain airbags) for a total of six. GLX buyers also receive privacy glass as standard, and the rear-view mirror dims automatically.  Plenty of space The Suzuki Baleno remains one of the most spacious hatchbacks in its price range. The vehicle has an overall length of 3 990 mm on a wheelbase of 2 520mm which gives it ample space for five occupants. The new Baleno’s suspension, steering and drivetrain have been improved to offer a more engaging ride, and the patented TECT safety shell and platform are now even more rigid despite the reduced weight. This is done by using more high-tensile steel. Through the smart use of space and design, the luggage area can store up to 314 litres with a full-sized spare wheel fitted. With the 60:40 split seats folded forward, the available storage space jumps to 1 057 litres.  Power-up! From 1.4 to 1.5 litres Apart from the additional luxuries, Suzuki has also replaced the 1.4 litre petrol engine of the previous-generation Baleno with its popular and powerful K15B petrol engine with variable valve timing, multipoint fuel injection and 16 valves per cylinder. This engine, which is also used in the Suzuki-built Toyota Starlet, Urban Cruiser and Rumion, and in Suzuki models such as the Jimny and Ertiga delivers a sprightly 77kW and 138Nm. While these power figures are impressive by their own accord, it is worth noting that Suzuki engineers have shaved off a significant amount of weight, thanks to the use of more high-tensile steel to bring the total vehicle weight to 955kg. This gives the Baleno a best-in-class power-to-weight ratio of 81kW per tonne. The Baleno has an average fuel consumption rating of 5.4l/100km for the five-speed manual transmission models and 5.7l/100km in the four-speed automatic transmission models.  Well taken care of Every new Baleno will be sold with Suzuki’s popular five-year/200 000km promotional mechanical warranty. This includes unlimited roadside assistance for the same period. Pricing includes a four-year/60 000km service plan and an anti-corrosion warranty of six years and unlimited kilometres. Service intervals are 15 000km. Source: MotorPress