POLOKWANE – The Department of Social Development has described a statement by the Democratic Alliance (DA) Limpopo on the Seshego Treatment Centre as ‘misleading and lacking substance’. On Monday, the DA Limpopo spokesperson for social development, Katlego Phala said the party had written to MEC Nkakareng Rakgaole to “urgently address the low admission rate and other issues at Seshego Treatment Centre.” Phala alleged that the centre has only been operational since the end of 2018 and has been unable to admit patients to full capacity since its inception. “In the 4 years of operation, it only reached full capacity for one year,” her statement read. You might also want to read: ‘Drugs don’t know gender’: a Seshego mother’s cry for help Phala also alleged that there is no dedicated medical doctor for the centre and said the department has underspent R2,595 million on the Substance Abuse, Prevention and Rehabilitation sub-programme in the 2021/2022 financial year, among other allegations. Social Development spokesperson Witness Tiva said the DA’s statement has created the impression that the department has not been doing any work in helping people with substance abuse issues and called it a ‘cheap political stunt’. Tiva added that the statement was released before the MEC was given a chance to respond. “The department wants to categorically state that the treatment of substance abuse is not only limited to the admission at the Seshego Treatment Centre. The Department renders its services through two rehabilitation treatment options: outpatient and inpatient,” he said. Tiva explained that social workers work closely with NPOs such as Sanca, whom the department funds for outpatient treatment options. “In the previous financial year, the department managed to assist 72 service users through inpatient treatment and 247 through outpatient treatment,” he said. Regarding the issue of budget underspending, Tiva said there was budget reprioritization as the department had to implement a budget cut of R198 million to surrender to National Treasury towards the contribution to the fight against Covid-19. “The Seshego Treatment Centre only spent the last quarter of the previous financial year without a doctor, who deals with admissions, but our nurses were still able to assist service users with detoxification and outpatient care. This was during the period we were revisiting our memorandum of understanding with the Department of Health,” he explained. Tiva said the low admission rate at the centre is attributed to people not coming forth to seek assistance. “The process of substance abuse treatment is voluntary and the department cannot force people to be assisted unless there is a court order directing us to admit patients,” he said. 