LIMPOPO – Mashudu Worship Mmbulaheni recently launched his second inspirational book titled, What kind of hatred is this? which he believes will be a ray of hope for those who feel alone and discouraged by their situation in life. His first book, Ndivengo was published in 2020. The Shakadza-born author says his objective, while he wrote both these books, was to offer hope to the hopeless. “Many people are sad and unhappy, and hopefully my book can give them some new courage to press on, regardless of the challenges they are faced with. It is for both young and old, and definitely entertaining,” he says. “Young people must keep doing what they love to do most, again and again, until they get it right. Many people have found talents within themselves that they never even knew they had, and that was what encouraged me to also start putting my writing skills to use.” Mmbulaheni says that during the lockdown, he started to recall moments in his life where he had gone through really tough times but that, in spite of this, he refused to be controlled by the situation. “Instead, I became the driver of my own life. I started to figure out how our local celebrities have done it. It was not by overnight success, but through the decision to take control of their situation and work towards achieving their dreams and desires. In life, people come across different challenges indeed, which either make them strong or vulnerable. No matter how good or bad, we choose our own battles,” he explains. The book suggests that readers should take their talents seriously if they want to stand out and make a change in society. “This book is selling like hot cakes, as many people find it appealing to their everyday lives. Wealth starts in the mind. This book will help you to move from one level on to the next towards wealth.” Mmbulaheni’s ultimate goal for this book is to reach as many readers as possible. People who are interested in Mmbulaheni’s book can contact him on 081 878 3877 or 071 797 2559 or Email him at mashududuworship@gmail.com. He is also available on Facebook: Olugaho Mashudu Mmbulaheni. 