POLOKWANE – Junior Netshituni (wicketkeeper), Katlego Sempe (batsman) and Saba Mridha (batsman) formed part of the squad who played in the final at the Imperial Wanderers Stadium on June 18. FCC won three games to progress to the T20 final last Friday evening. They beat Jeppe Cricket Club by four wickets during a nail-biting match that saw Jeppe concede 88 runs in extras. The trio have been part of the squad for over a year and played in the seven-week tournament which saw over 1 200 players participate. The T20 competition was the brainchild of the Lions Cricket Union and spanned across 12 age groups from u/11 through to the veterans group with over 85 teams that took part. Mridha told Polokwane Observer that playing at the Wanderers provided an adrenaline rush and he described holding the trophy as a moment he will never forget. “I am proud to have been a part of the competition and I hope this win will motivate other players in the province to chase their dreams because it is possible,” he said. Sempe said it was not his first time playing at the Wanderers. “It was, however, nice to play back-to-back games there. Playing under the lights was new for me and made it quite difficult to play, but knowing how many great cricket players have played there made it worthwhile,” he said. Sempe added that their participation shows that players in the province need opportunities. “To have three players from Limpopo in the winning team shows that our players have the capabilities to win. I’m happy that we have players who are able to win trophies and compete at a very high level,” he said. Netshituni enjoyed the experience. “Participating was one thing but winning will forever be an unforgettable experience. We practised hard and it paid off. I’m grateful to be part of such a hard-working and driven team.” He added that playing at the Wanderers has been a dream of his since high school and a memory he will cherish forever. “The decision to play in Gauteng wasn’t easy to make but lifting the trophy showed it was all worth the sacrifice,” he concluded. 