POLOKWANE – The assistant coach of the provincial female softball team, Maggie Letsoalo from Mankweng, says more work needs to be done to grow women’s softball in the province. She says women’s softball in Limpopo progresses at “the speed of a tortoise” – a worrying factor for some of the game’s top brass. “The slow development needs urgent attention. As part of the development agenda, more teams need to be part of the provincial league. Our province is without a doubt the home of softball because of the immense talent here. You might also want to read: Limpopo crowned top softball team in South Africa for the sixth time “The talent transcends gender lines and our females can dominate the national game the same way as our male colleagues. However, due to unfortunate circumstances such as a lack of mass participation from local clubs, we resort to play competitive softball at district levels.” Limpopo women have been regular participants at the annual provincial championships and at the inaugural Softball South Africa Premier League, yet they have been unable to enrich their silverware cabinet. Letsoalo is pleased that the regular appearance of Limpopo women at these two flagship national events is a step in the right direction. She says these tournaments give their players exposure and provides a platform to maneuver through the national setup. “We are pleased that every time a national team is announced, there is representation from Limpopo.” Letsoalo insists that clubs need to foster good relationships with schools in order to attain the envisaged goal. “There is no other place where teams are guaranteed mass participation than from schools. Through this relationship, our development and transformation agenda will bear significant fruit,” she adds. Limpopo Softball Association chairperson Mokgadi Moswatsi says the association is committed to the development of women’s softball. “We have a commitment and comprehensive plan to improve the standard of female athletes. We are blessed with enormous talent in the province and we will never commit that mistake of nurturing that endowment.” 