POLOKWANE – The smell of fresh boerewors rolls filled the air at Winnfield Stables, while dust clouds made the competitiveness from horses and riders evident. It was saddle up and get ready for action at the fourth South Africa Western Mounted Games (SAWMGA) and South African National Equestrian Schools Association (Sanesa) Limpopo qualifier. The qualifier was held on Saturday and more than a 100 riders took part. Western mounted games are an action-packed, precision sport where a good horse requires the speed of a racehorse, the turning ability of a cutting horse and the control and responsiveness of a stock horse. In South Africa, the games include American gymkhana events such as barrel racing, keyhole, hurry scurry, pole bending, quadrangle, bi-rangle, single stake, figure eight flags and figure eight stake, speed ball, big T and speed barrels. Riders have to compete in five of these events at a SAWMGA qualifier, and on Saturday, these events were the bi-rangle, hurry scurry, keyhole, quadrangle and speed barrels. Children who took part in the games, also took part in the Sanesa qualifying round. Sanesa is acknowledged by the South African Equestrian Federation and Sascoc. The association promotes all forms of equestrian sport within South Africa’s schools’ community. Every province or district hosts up to four multi-discipline competitions in the first seven months of the year. The top eight riders of the area, with the most accumulated points in each discipline, will represent the province at the annual Sanesa National Championships in September or October. Capricorn Western Mounted Club secretary Mylene le Roux said the day was successful. “A total of 111 riders from Limpopo had another opportunity to take part in the five games, to improve their times to be selected in the national team. Winnfield Stables’ new arena is now the largest arena in Limpopo and all Polokwane riders did very well. There were riders who did so well that they moved up a level with their impressive times, while other riders took home a number of rosettes as they finished in the top three,” she added. 