 But sometimes even the best kids break the rules. Like Andy and Laura’s son, Connor. When he misses his curfew, it’s just one of a series of events that will change his life – and that of his friends – forever. Twists and red herrings and there-by-the-grace-of-God. The Curfew by TM Logan boasts about being an up-all-night thriller, and delivers! Definitely our book of the month! Bonnier Publishing, available from Exclusive Books Amid the desolate wilderness of the Great Plains of Nebraska, a region so isolated you could drive for hours without seeing another human being, sits Hatchery House. Having served as a church, an asylum and an orphanage, Hatchery is now a treatment facility for orphaned or abandoned children with psychiatric disorders. Haunted by patients past and present, only the most vulnerable find a home within its walls. Former FBI psychiatrist Dr Lorelei Lore Webber has almost grown used to the unorthodox methods used at Hatchery House. But when one of her patients is murdered, Lore finds herself dragged into the centre of an investigation that unearths startling truths, shocking discoveries, and untold cruelty. Dark, haunting, chilling, Kassandra Montag’s Those Who Return is a psychological thriller of guilt and redemption. Quercus, available from Exclusive Books  Bullying. It’s frightening. It’s cruel. And it’s rife. Based on many years’ experience counselling bullies and targets, in Bully-Proof Kids Stella O’Malley offers concrete strategies to empower children and teenagers to deal confidently with bullying and dominant characters. She identifies effective ways for families to cope when bullying occurs, including approaching the school authorities, communicating with the bully’s parents and tips to tackle cyberbullying. Her common-sense approach will help your child, tween or teen to develop their emotional intelligence and will provide relief for families navigating the rapidly changing social environment, both online and in school. Faber & Faber, available from Exclusive Books