POLOKWANE – Some drivers who work in the ride-hailing services have reported abuse by the commuters they transport to the extent that an app has been created to assist. Drivers say they have had to endure sexual harassment, physical assault and even hijacking. “I once drove a gentleman who was very cordial until we arrived at his destination. He then produced a knife and threatened to harm me if I dared demand payment from him. I immediately unlocked the car and pleaded with him to leave and not harm me,” one driver told Bonus. Another driver shared his experience: “This one time I had a request from a lady who asked to pay once we reach the destination as the person on the other side would be paying. When we arrived she went into the house and returned, saying the person now refuses to pay. She then offered to have sexual intercourse with me as payment. I was upset and asked her to get out of the car.” You might also want to read: Mankweng Bolt users up in arms over drivers’ conduct The Deputy Chairperson of the Capricorn Metered Taxi Association (CMTA) Victor Selapa, who is the co-founder of the newly launched Pickup Cab app, said that drivers have confirmed hardships experienced at the hands of passengers. “One of our drivers had his car set alight in Dalmada in 2021 after the passengers threatened to harm him, to which he pleaded for their mercy.” Selapa said the driver opened a case with police. He also related how one driver had his car dented by a man who thought he was a lover of his wife, who he was dropping off. After failing to get help from the police on a number of cases, they started Pickup Cab which has a panic button safety feature drivers can activate to get help from fellow drivers. Speaking on behalf of the Limpopo E-hailing Association (LEA), Aubrey Phasha said these reports are concerning and that they have decided to form a forum that will look into these matters ensuring the protection of drivers by verifying the details of everyone using their services. The spokesperson for the police in Limpopo, Lt Col Mamphaswa Seabi encourages drivers to open cases with the police, and to trust the Cybercrimes Unit to investigate. “To be safe, drivers must consider payment upfront and get passengers’ details,” he concluded. 