POLOKWANE – “These are semantics but that is not what matters, this is a game of politics.’ With these words, political analyst Dr John Molepo scrutinises the reconfiguration of the Limpopo Executive Council which was announced earlier today (June 29). In a statement the spokesperson for the premier, Willy Mosoma, announced that Premier Chupu Mathabatha has decided to ‘reconfigure’ the exco. “At the State of the Province Address 2021, Mathabatha made a commitment to enter into service delivery agreements with members of the executive council (MECs) to enable him to constantly monitor and assess their performances,” he explained. The premier made some changes to the exco based on their performance assessment, the statement reads. Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya has been moved to Education, while Polly Boshielo will be the new Transport and Community Safety MEC. Nkakareng Rakgoale replaces Dr Dickson Masemola as Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure MEC who takes over from her as the Social Development MEC. Six of the MECs will remain in their current positions. They are Dr Phophi Ramathuba (Health), Seaparo Sekwati (Treasury), Nandi Ndalane (Agriculture), Thabo Mokone (Economic Development, Environment and Tourism), Basikopo Makamu (Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs) and Thandi Moraka (Sport, Arts and Culture). “I believe these changes will strengthen good corporate governance and improve service delivery in the province for our people,” Mathabatha said. However, Molepo said the changes are a strategic ploy by the premier. “They play away from the word ‘reshuffle’ because it was expected,” as he refers to when the premier rubbished the Exco reshuffle reports. Molepo mentioned that it was expected that the MECs who have not been elected as part of the provincial executive committee would be worked out. “They have instead been moved to portfolios with less significance and resources. I expect that this moves was planned in order to improve Mathabatha’s chances to contend for the national chairperson position of the ANC.” 