 Hello light, bouncy curls: Whether you have natural curls or have mastered the art of creating soft, flat iron twirls, the key to luscious locks is in the prep work. Wash your hair the day before with a lightweight shampoo and conditioner (or skip the conditioner) as this will help hold the curl better. Wash: Try the Marc Anthony HydraLock Shampoo (R170.00), enriched with jojoba oil micro-pearls and quinoa protein to cleanse your hair coupled with the Marc Anthony HydraLock Conditioner (R170.00) to lock in moisture, leaving your hair feeling light, soft and shiny. Style: Apply a hair mousse, such as the Umberto Giannini Curl Whip Curl Activating Mousse (R150.00) to damp or dry hair for weightless, flexible, frizz-free curls. When you are done styling your curls, complete the look with a spritz of Hask Curl Care 5-In-1 Leave-In Spray (R200.00) to soften, add shine and seal in moisture without weighing curls down. Beautiful braids for weeks: Simple maintenance and protection can help your braids last between two to eight weeks. Safe sleeping: Start by always using a satin bonnet or headscarf at night time to help protect them from friction and moisture-zapping cotton pillowcases, while helping prevent  breakage. Try the Evolve Wide Edge Satin Bonnet (R169.95) which also comes in a larger size,perfect for thick, kinky and curly hair. Moisturise: Keeping your braids and scalp moisturised will promote health hair growth and prevent breakage, so opt for a product like Cantu Shea Butter Tea Tree & Jojoba Hair & Scalp Oil (R175.00). Wash: Braids should not be washed more than once a fortnight. Wash the braids carefully in sections using a gentle shampoo that doesn’t leave any build-up behind. We like the Nilotiqa Shea & Coco Deep Cleansing Shampoo 400ml (R189.95) which is mild, and gentle and non-drying. Style: Opt for a styling gel to smooth frizz and flyaway hair, while enjoying a shiny, long-lasting and flake-free hold. Try the Cantu She Butter Edge Control Extra Hold Stay Gel (R149.95). Cute cornrows without the itch: Moisturise, moisturise moisturise – that is the key to a happy, healthy scalp when wearing your hair in cornrows. Scalp care: By taking extra good care of your scalp, you will avoid flaking, itching and bacteria build-up. Add a daily spritz or three of a scalp serum to keep the scalp nourished and moisturised. Try the Curls In Bloom’s Treat Me! Tea Tree Scalp Repair and Hairline Serum (R119.95) with tea tree oil that has natural antibacterial properties to help promote hair growth. It also contains peppermint which provides a refreshing and cooling sensation, as well as soothing chamomile. Shampoo: Choose a lightweight shampoo to lift away dirt and product build-up from the scalp and follow with a creamy, leave-in conditioner that softens the hair while restoring its moisture balance and protecting it from breakage. Protection: Like with braids, remember to sleep with a protective bonnet or scarf at night. We like the Evolve Satin Wrap Scarf Safari (R170.00) that snuggly secures your style while sleeping and helps prevent breakage.