Add slow-cooked organic beef and some power-packed veg to this spicy mix, and dear ones, you have a foodies dream, a definite favourite!

Serves 6 You’ll need:  4 Tbsp B-well Cooking Olive Oil; 2 Tbsp B-well Thick & Creamy Mayonnaise; 1,5kg grass-fed/ organic beef pieces, cut into 3cm pieces; 3 medium onions, finely chopped; 2 cups cooked sweet potatoes, small cubes; 1 large aubergine, thinly sliced; 1 punnet mushrooms, sliced or quartered; 500g natural yoghurt; ½ cup roasted cashews (optional) For the Masala – 4 garlic cloves, peeled, ½ finely chopped; 2 Tbsp crushed ginger; 1 small tin/ ½ big tin tomato puree; ½ tsp fine red chilli powder (or more, as you wish); ½ tsp turmeric powder; ½ fine cumin powder; 1 tsp dry coriander powder; 1 tsp cardamom powder; 1 tsp fine black pepper; 1 tsp Kosher salt; ¼ cup fresh coriander for garnish How to: On medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon B-well Cooking Olive Oil in a large skillet/ saucepan. Sear and seal the beef pieces on each side until slightly browned, sprinkling with some salt and pepper. Remove from the Skillet and set to rest. To the skillet, add the rest of the B-well Cooking Olive Oil, then add the finely chopped onions and braise until golden and brown. To the onions, add the minced ginger, chopped garlic, red chilli powder, turmeric, cumin, coriander powder and cardamom powder. Mix well and allow the heat to release all the flavours of the spices for 2-3 minutes, then add the tomato puree and stir well. Add 1 cup boiling water and add the browned beef pieces to the skillet with salt and pepper, making sure to coat each piece in the spiced mix. Allow to come to a boil, then reduce heat to low-medium to simmer. Replace the lid and allow to simmer for 2-3 hours or until beef is super tender. Once the beef is tender, add the sliced aubergine. Mix to marinate the aubergine and mushrooms, add these to the top of your mixture, sprinkling the salt, black pepper and garlic onto the mushrooms. Mix and allow to absorb all the flavours, replace the lid and allow to cook for 5 minutes. Add the pre-cooked butternut, yoghurt and B-well Thick & Creamy Mayonnaise. Replace the lid, turn the stove to low heat and allow the curry to simmer for 10 minutes. Take off the heat, sprinkle the fresh coriander, and serve the tender beef korma with some gravy and veg, on a bed of basmati rice or your choice of naan/ bread. *Recipe and image by B-well Foods.