While there are literally hundreds of fudge recipes out there, here are two very unique ones from the chefs at Capsicum Culinary Studio. BACON AND BANANA FUDGE  You’ll need: 450g caster sugar; 400ml double cream; 50g butter; 1 Tbsp glucose syrup; 1 Tbsp mashed banana; 2 rashers streaky bacon, grilled until crispy then shredded How to: Line a 19 x 9 x 6cm loaf tin with baking paper. Tip the sugar, cream, butter and glucose syrup into a medium saucepan and heat to dissolve the sugar and melt the butter, stirring constantly. Once dissolved, increase the heat and bring the syrup to a steady boil. Keep bubbling, stirring occasionally to stop the sugar from catching, until the mixture reaches the soft-ball stage (whereby a teaspoon of hot syrup is dropped into a bowl of very cold water and forms a soft ball). Remove the pan from the heat and let rest for 5 minutes. Stir in a good pinch of salt, then beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until the fudge thickens and loses its glossy shine. Stir in the mashed banana then quickly pour the fudge into the prepared tin, banging the tin gently on the countertop to smooth the surface. Sprinkle the cooked bacon over the and leave to cool down overnight. (Don’t put it in the fridge as it will become sticky and won’t set properly.) Cut into bite-sized pieces. BOOZY FUDGE (for over 18s only!)  You’ll need: 125g salted butter, plus extra for the tin; 397g can condensed milk; 460g light muscovado sugar; 150ml milk; 1 tsp vanilla extract; 2 Tbsp coffee liqueur (Kahlua, Amarula or Amaretto also works well) How to: Butter and line a 20cm square tin with baking paper. Put the butter, condensed milk and sugar and milk in a large saucepan over low heat. Stir continuously until the sugar dissolves. Increase the heat and bring to a boil for 10 mins, stirring all the time until the mixture reaches the soft ball stage (whereby a teaspoon of hot syrup is dropped into a bowl of very cold water and forms a soft ball). Remove from the heat and add the coffee liqueur and vanilla extract, then beat vigorously with a wooden spoon until it thickens. Pour into the prepared tin and bang the tin gently on the countertop to smooth the surface. Leave to set then cut into squares. Will keep for up to three weeks in an airtight container but it will probably get eaten within 24 hours!