In celebration of Youth Month, the SPAR Family Portraits competition will run from 29 May to 24 June, and will make 60 little artists and their families famous as their artwork will be printed large-scale and showcased on SPAR trucks across the region. It’s time for little artists between the ages of six and 10 to grab those pencils, crayons, paints or marker pens and get busy. By drawing mom, dad, granny, grandpa, sisters, brothers – in fact, anyone who’s part of the family – they stand the chance for their SPAR Family Portraits to be seen everywhere the SPAR trucks travel. Step 1: Collect a FREE A4 competition entry form at your nearest SPAR. Step 2: Draw your best, brightest, happiest family portrait using colour pencils, crayons, koki pens or paint. Step 3: Write your name, contact details and a short story about your family portrait on the back of the A4 competition entry form. Step 4: Drop your entry in the entry box at your nearest SPAR Step 5: Winners will be contacted telephonically by 5 August 2022. The top 60 entrants will win badges, certificates and R1,000 SPAR vouchers that can be spent at their local SPAR to buy goodies for everyone at home. Out of the 60 finalists, three will be drawn and the schools that the three winners attend will each receive a prize of R10,000 in cash. “SPAR is about families. Not only are families important to our business, they are also important to the communities in which we operate and children are at the heart of every community and every family. Our Family Portraits competition celebrates our children and honours the unique way they view the most important people in their lives,” says Kathleen Bailie, representative of SPAR Inland. “The majority of our stores are family-run, employ staff from surrounding communities and are supported by local residents. Over the years, our SPAR stores have extended support to local causes, including various funding and education programmes which benefit local schools. Our Family Portraits project is part of this commitment to education and drawing attention to the talents of young South Africans who will become the leaders of tomorrow.” Entry forms for the SPAR Family Portraits competition will be available in all participating SPAR stores. On the front of the form is space for the family portrait. On the back, entrants are asked to complete their contact details and a short description of their families by the artists. All that remains is for the completed entry to be dropped into the special in-store entry box at their local SPAR. Entries will close on 24 June and winners will be announced by 5 August. “Our hope is that children across all participating regions will enter the competition, enabling us to not only showcase South Africa’s young artistic talent, but also bring a smile to all who see our Family Portrait trucks,” concludes Kathleen.  Disclaimer : The SPAR Family Portraits competition excludes the Western Cape, Eastern Cape, KwaZulu Natal and Lowveld. 