POLOKWANE – The four teens accused of murdering Thorisho Themane have asked for a second chance and not to be sent to prison. Vincent Mothemela (18), Tshiamo Myeni (19), Lesetja Ramokgopa (20) and Kgothatso Teffo (18) took the stand in the Limpopo High Court: Polokwane Division this morning in mitigation. All the accused told the court that contrary to probation officer William Raphela’s submission that they weren’t remorseful, they are sorry for what happened. Read more: #ThorishoThemane: Sentencing proceedings to continue Accused number one, Teffo, during his cross examination, told the court that he is currently in Gr 12 and wants to be a chartered accountant when he matriculates. When asked which kind of sentence he should be given, he told the court “the kind of punishment that shouldn’t disturb me from completing Gr 12 because education is important in this country.” Did you tell your friends to stop assaulting the deacesed?"I did but Moloko said he doesn't want to know anything the deceased started the fight. I didn't physically stop them I just told them to stop". @PolokwaneReview@PolokwaneObserv#ThorisoThemane — Mmatshikhidi Phala-Magoro (@Lizelle_becca) June 28, 2022  During proceedings, the Themane family refuted claims that Teffo’s family sent a delegation with goods to the family home. Accused number two, Mothemela told the court that he feels sorry for the Themane family for losing a loved one and asked for a suspended sentence and not direct imprisonment because he is not a criminal. Advocate Mudau for prosecution asks Mathobela if he says he shouldn't go to prison, who should considering that a life was lost. He answers "I don't know. If I have to go, the others who were released must also go". @PolokwaneReview@PolokwaneObserv#ThorisoThemane — Mmatshikhidi Phala-Magoro (@Lizelle_becca) June 28, 2022  Accused number three, Myeni told the court that his grades have suffered because of the trial. He also added that he is not friends with the co-accused. Mudau asks Myeni about earlier question of who should be sent to prison to which Myeni listed murder, abuse and others. Myeni says only those who committed the crimes must be imprisoned.Mudau "but this court already found you guilty of murder". @PolokwaneReview@PolokwaneObserv — Mmatshikhidi Phala-Magoro (@Lizelle_becca) June 28, 2022  Myeni’s mother said attempts by her and other parents to meet with the Themane family were made a week after the incident but said a delegate returned with no response from the family home. Mudau: "we are going to submit to court that justice must he served. Our law permits this court to sentence the offenders to maximum 25 years for such murder. Do you understand?" Mother: "I understand that the court has a duty." @PolokwaneReview@PolokwaneObserv#ThorisoThemane — Mmatshikhidi Phala-Magoro (@Lizelle_becca) June 28, 2022  Accused number four, Ramokgopa said he went to the crime scene only looking for a cap and ended up in court. He asked the court for house arrest instead of direct imprisonment to allow him to finish school. The legal representative of accused adults told the court they will not be taking the stand. The prosecution and defence are expected to make closing arguments when court resumes this afternoon and final sentencing is expected tomorrow morning (June 29). 