“MC” stands for “Maserati Corse”, which is Italian for “racing”; 20 refers to 2020, the year that began the brand’s new era; and “Cielo” (“sky”) highlights the fact that it is a model devoted to driving pleasure in the great outdoors while maintaining all the prerogatives of the coupe. The model is equipped with a state-of-the-art electrochromic (smart glass) window that can instantly be transformed from clear to opaque at the touch of a button on the central screen, courtesy of polymer-dispersed liquid crystal (PDLC) technology. The roof is also best-in-class in terms of thermal insulation and of opening and closing speed (just 12 seconds). Courtesy of this epitome of technology, including the revolutionary V6 Nettuno engine, MC20 Cielo provides a multisensory driving experience: all-encompassing with the roof closed and opaque, unique for the in-cabin brightness when the roof is transparent, and holistic with the top down.  Developed at the Maserati Innovation Lab and produced at the historic plant on Viale Ciro Menotti, the spyder is 100% made in Italy and 100% made in Modena, as is the coupe version. The MC20 Cielo is designed for perfection. It weighs just 65kg more than the coupe, made possible by meticulous, precise work during the stages of the car’s design. As well as its outstanding weight-to-power ratio, the carbon fibre chassis (the same for all three configurations to come: coupe, spyder and the future electric version) also guarantees uncompromising torsional rigidity, offering a combination of extraordinary handling on the road and on the track. Nothing is superfluous in the design; everything has its own function. The only concession to a surprise effect is the butterfly doors, as in the MC20 super sports car. The butterfly door provides much easier access into and out of the cabin, as well as showing off the carbon fibre cockpit and the completely unmasked front wheel.  From an aesthetic perspective, the launch version features a new three-layer metallic colour known as Acquamarina, available as part of the Maserati Fuoriserie customisation programme. The new model also adds a wide range of Active Safety Systems. As well as the parking sensors, rear-view camera and blind spot monitoring included in the MC20 since the MY22, the new spyder introduces an autonomous emergency brake, traffic sign information and a new 360° camera. MC20 Cielo is equipped with an optional high-premium Sonus Faber audio system. The MC20 Coupe system, an EISA award-winning in-vehicle audio system, has been specifically optimised to fit the unique acoustic and positioning needs of the spyder’s cabin, situating the system’s 12 speakers to result in the natural sound that distinguishes Sonus Faber audio systems. Finally, the in-car experience is managed from the Maserati Intelligent Assistant (MIA) Multimedia system, and from Maserati Connect. At the world premiere of the new Maserati spyder, the bond with the sky will be the central theme, to take you into a new, holistic dimension: just raise your eyes and look up to the sky. Source: MotorPress