POLOKWANE – The Seshego Polokwane Taxi Association (SPTA) said the usage of the phrase “all cars” in their recent notice to commuters was a typing error. The notice, which was released on Monday (June 6), suggests that no vehicle apart from SPTA taxis is allowed to ferry commuters to Seshego and surrounding areas. It reads: “All commuters from Zone 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, Ext 133, Emdo [Park], Mahlasedi [Park], 106, Lethuli [Park]. Please be advised that any car from town to Seshego that is not from SPTA is not allowed to drop you at Seshego. It will drop you at its destination.”  SPTA spokesperson Ally Harmer Mothiba said the notice was merely referring to taxis. “The SPTA took the decision as to minimise and manage the community and taxi industry, especially in light of a rise in crime committed through the use of the public transport sector where locals become victims,” he told the Polokwane Review. Mothiba said the safety of the community is of great concern to the association and that crime such as human trafficking must come to an end. “Commuters must look out for distinct features on the association’s taxis such as a red or green sticker with SPTA written on it so that they get on a taxi whose ownership and driver is known by the association,” he said. The notice caused a stir on social media with many asking how the association has authority to dictate which taxis can load and drop commuters. To that, Mothiba said the SPTA is a legit association that abides by the Polokwane Traffic Department’s rules and regulations. “It is our duty to assist the department since we know the routes we are supposed to use. Routes are not to be used by any other taxi if not authorized,” he said. Mothiba added that Market Street has become a problem for the association. “It is a pity that the department is dragging its feet on solving this matter. We need to join hands and use our reliable taxi ranks,” he said. Transport media liaison officer Mike Maringa, in response to the decision by the SPTA, said every permit indicates which routes to use. “They [SPTA] are making it easy for commuters so that they are not inconvenienced if found in a taxi driving on an unauthorized route,” he said. He added that Market Street is a transit route use by taxis from various associations and that it is important for those whose permits allow them to only transit through the route to do so without picking up commuters as it causes disagreements. 