POLOKWANE – He had planned a trip to Spain with everything having been booked in advance, when he realised that his passport was about to expire soon. “I was required to send a photo of my passport to our host in Spain and only then I realised that I was in trouble. It was only a few days before our scheduled flight and I had to make a plan. A quick one.” After hearing from friends about the excellent service rendered at the Seshego Home Affairs office, he decided to put them to the test. “At the time, they were experiencing loadshedding and the generator did not work. I thought I would apply anyway, not expecting much, and subsequently tried to apply at a few banks. This too, was unsuccessful.” Mockford then attempted to apply for a new passport online, but after having logged on too many times, this led to other issues. “I had to cancel these applications. A woman from Home Affairs phoned me and said I should come to the office as all these problems had been solved, but unfortunately that was not the case.” A few days later, he once again attempted to apply. This time proved more successful, and by the Friday, he received a call from Home Affairs. Albert Matsaung, the Home Affairs Head in Limpopo, travelled to The Ranch Resort to deliver Mockford’s new document to him. “The passport application was finalised very late, around knock-off time. Since Brad was en-route to my next destination, and the problems were on our side, I decided to take the passport directly to him at The Ranch Resort.” Audrey Saleka, who is a Home Affairs mobile manager and has been working in the department for the past 13 years, says this level of service is nothing new. “This is simply how we operate. He wanted to apply at our office, and the delay was on our side. That is why we went the extra mile to assist Brad.” Mockford has nothing but compliments for the two officials and the service he received. “I received excellent service from Audrey Saleka and Albert Matsuang. I would have missed my trip had they not assisted. There were no favours and no bribes involved, just good service. People are often quick to complain about service, and it was good to see people assisting each other,” he told Polokwane Observer. 