Spiders may appear frightening, but bites on children are uncommon and rarely dangerous. In fact, spiders prefer solitude and will only bite if they feel threatened (arachnophobes, rejoice!). If your child gets bitten by a spider, expect a similar reaction to a bee sting, such as redness and swelling, and make them feel better with these suggestions for identifying and treating spider bites in children. The most frequent signs of a house spider bite include redness, itching, pain, and a skin lump. However, some spiders are dangerous. Probably the most infamous South African spider species are the potentially lethal black button spider and the less dangerous brown button spider. The abdomen of these spiders is black with crimson bands of longitudinal stripes. As the spider matures, it moults and loses its red pattern, which is frequently replaced by white spots. Adult spiders are completely black. The egg sacs are rounded and smooth. Males are tiny, measuring between 3 and 6 mm, while females have a body length of 7 to 16 mm. Good to know: There are 31 species of black button spiders in the world, eight of which are in Africa. The brown button is distinguished by the orange-to-red hourglass beneath its spherical abdomen, which may be grey, white, brown, or black. The top abdomen bears circular geometric decorations, and the joints of the brown legs are dark. The egg sacs are spiked and white. Males have a body length of 4-7mm while females measure 8-14mm. Good to know: Button spiders are widespread in South Africa and typically inhabit quiet, dark places. Most spider bites occur when the spiders are disturbed in their hiding spot. The button spider that is commonly found in sheds and around windowsills is the less poisonous house button spider. Violin spiders are widespread in South Africa, but human interaction is uncommon. Typically, brownish with dark patterns and a violin-shaped cephalothorax, these insects have a violin-shaped head and thorax. The violin spider runs between 8 and 19mm. Most attacks occur at night when the victim is sleeping. Their venom is cytotoxic, meaning it damages tissue. The bites are often minor and painless, but within a few hours, the site develops a blister and skin-only necrosis. Typically, skin lesions are misinterpreted as spider-borne Cytotoxic envenomations. Before incorrectly labelling it as spider bites, alternative reasons must be ruled out. However, untreated bites can result in infections, septicaemia, and necrosis, necessitating surgery to remove the dead tissue. Go to the doctor promptly if you observe skin lesions or ulcers that are not the result of a recognised accident and worsen. A cream or course of antibiotics may be necessary. If a spider has bitten your child, you may be able to administer treatment at home. Here are a few measures to accelerate the healing process and prevent infection: If your child develops signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, pus, or a warm sensation around the bite, contact your doctor, or go to the emergency department.