Price, size, security, location, amenities and access routes are just some of the criteria for prospective tenants to consider when looking for a rental property. Of course, there are even more variables when you have a family to consider, so a checklist of your needs is essential. Before you start the search, you need a clear idea of what type of home you are looking for, what amenities are essential and the maximum rental you are willing to pay. Most tenants start out with online searches and then narrow down their selection before approaching the letting agents whose names are listed against the most promising rental properties. Keep in mind that rental agents don’t always advertise all the available properties on their books. They may be able to give you additional options to choose from. Competent rental agents understand the letting prices in the area and will be able to provide you with advice on amenities in the area, including schools, shops and restaurants. Safety and security are among the most important factors for most tenants, but particularly for parents with young children. To find out if the neighbourhood you are looking to rent in is safe, it’s a good idea to speak to some of the residents. Pay a visit to the local shopping centre and talk to the shop assistants and some of the shoppers. Most people are only too happy to chat about their neighbourhood, and you may even make some new friends in the process. A neighbourhood with a wealth of amenities is first prize for most tenants, which is why landlords favour properties in these areas when looking to invest. Tenants generally tend to prioritise their needs based on their lifestyle and what is important to them. For families, this usually means looking for school-related and child-focused amenities as well as good shopping centres and 24-hour healthcare facilities. Having education, recreation, health, shopping, and restaurant amenities close to your new home should be highly considered. On your checklist, decide which criteria are non-negotiable and which ones are nice to have. Families usually need more space than singles, couples or retired people. However, because of the upkeep costs of larger properties, many families prefer small to medium properties that are easy to maintain. Sectional title townhouses are often a good compromise between larger freestanding houses and flats. Many sectional title complexes also offer recreational amenities in a secure environment, which makes up for the lack of garden space. The rental you are prepared to pay will depend on your personal circumstances, and obviously, this will influence the type of property you will be looking for. It’s important not to be tempted to overextend your family finances. Work out what you can afford to pay in rent, and don’t exceed that amount. It is far better to rent a cheaper home and have a little spare money every month for emergencies or savings than to rent an expensive home that will ruin your chances of owning your own home one day. To help you find the family rental home that is right for you, have a clear understanding of your needs, enlist a reputable agent, do your homework on the neighbourhood before signing a lease and be realistic about what you can afford. Don’t lose sight of upfront costs like deposits, advance rental payments, furniture removals and telephone transfer costs.