Because eggs, like fathers, are egg-stra special. Boiled, coddled, poached, scrambled or fried, eggs are incredible. Eggs are one of the most nutritious foods out there, and we want dad in tip top form for soccer, sightseeing, frisbees, finger painting or whatever activity you love doing together. So for Father’s Day on Sunday we’ve decided to serve dad a loaded Breakfast Bruschetta, which is just as much fun to make as it is to eat! Breakfast Bruschetta Serves 4 You’ll need: 2 tablespoons olive oil; 400-500g rump steak; 2 whole garlic cloves, crushed; 5 thyme sprigs, stripped; 1 tablespoon butter; 500ml boiling water; 8 eggs; 1 tablespoon white vinegar; 8 slices thick French bread; 2 medium avocados; 10g wild rocket For the dressing – ½ cup plain yoghurt; ¼ cup olive oil; ¼ cup smooth Dijon mustard; 3 – 4 tablespoons honey, to taste; 2 tablespoons lemon juice; 2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar or lemon juice; 1 teaspoon crushed garlic; ½ teaspoon salt; ¼ teaspoon ground black pepper How to: In a large saucepan on medium to high heat, add cooking oil and coat the pan well. Place the rump steak in the pan, crushed garlic cloves, thyme and butter. Cook evenly for 2-3 minutes on both sides, keep it a little bit longer on the fatty side to get a nice crisp and set aside to let it rest. Do not slice yet. Poached eggs: In a small saucepan pour the 500ml boiling water and vinegar into a small saucepan and bring to a simmer. Once the water starts boiling, reduce the heat to low. Crack open the eggs one at a time into separate ramekins or egg poaching cups. Drop the poaching cups into the water. For a firm white and runny yolk, you’ll want to poach for 3-4 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon once done to your liking and set aside. Dressing: In a 500ml glass jar, place all the dressing ingredients and whisk until well blended. Add more honey if you prefer a sweeter dressing. Assembling: Toast the bread slices, top with avocado slices, wild rocket, steak slithers, poached egg, finish off with creamy dressing and enjoy! Like EGGcellentFood on Facebook and follow us on Instagram eggcellentfoodsa , for further information and recipes visit www.sapoultry.co.za