It can be difficult to find the correct therapy for your child’s dry skin. Because children’s skin is more sensitive and dries out faster than adults’, they are more prone to experience itchy, red, rough, or peeling skin. The cold, dry air of winter can cause or worsen dry skin. Give winter skin the cold shoulder with these top hacks to keep your child’s skin healthy, no matter the weather! Moisturisers are essential for treating or preventing dry skin in children. When it comes to moisturising dry skin, ointments are usually better than creams, and creams are usually better than lotions. It’s best to apply moisturiser on damp skin, such as right after your child gets out of the bath. This can help to keep moisture in. Soaps strip the skin of its natural protective oils, leaving it vulnerable to dryness and irritation. For babies, children, and tweens, choose soaps made of quality ingredients that are gentle, dermatologist-tested, and free from fragrances, sulphates and alcohol. When they reach adolescence, your child can begin using soap just where they develop body odour (armpits, feet, and genitals). Never use soap on irritated or rashy skin. A bubbly bath, although fun, can irritate your child’s sensitive skin. Many of the bubble baths on store shelves – even those specifically marketed to children – often contain chemicals that have known drying properties, which can lead to dry skin. So skip the bubbles and opt for kid-friendly body wash in an unscented or sensitive-skin variety. To prevent irritation, wash your child’s clothing in fragrance-free laundry detergent and choose clothes made of soft, breathable fibres (such as cotton). Using a cool-mist humidifier in your child’s room during the winter, when the air in the house may be dry from the heater, can help relieve dry skin and keep their skin healthy. If you live in a hot, dry climate, you may want to use a humidifier throughout the summer as well. Eczema is a skin disorder characterised by red, itchy skin and inflammation. It is fairly frequent among children. It differs from simple dry skin and necessitates a distinct therapy. If your child exhibits symptoms of eczema, consult with their doctor about the best method to treat it.