POLOKWANE – The Mankweng-based voluntary community protection organisation, Lekgotla la Motswikitswiki says the use of drugs in Mankweng is getting out of hand and needs urgent addressing. You might also want to read: Mankweng community to host prayer day aimed at fighting drugs and crime in the area On June 16 in celebration of Youth Day, the organisation in collaboration with the Mankweng Police Station embarked on a peaceful walk from Zone 1’s recreational park to the University of Limpopo with placards denouncing drug abuse in their community. The chairperson of the organisation, Tebogo Matsetela told those present that the habit should be of concern to every resident: “Nyaope, cat and crystal meth are problematic in Mankweng. I urge you to go back to your homes and tell young people the importance of doing away with drugs as it ruins their future”. Some young drug abusers BONUS spoke to, cited various reasons for the habit, including that it offers an escape from the stressors of life. One person related how they started smoking glue while still in high school. “I started smoking glue because my friends smoked it, and I can’t stop now.” Another addict commented: “Things are not going well. I don’t abuse drugs, I just get something to cool down after stress.” The spokesperson for Lekgotla la Motswikitswiki Pitsi Sehlapelo told BONUS that what was particularly worrying is that many of these addicts are students who drop out of university only to become homeless. “We previously arrested some alleged drug dealers who are out on bail and it’s worrying that they continue drug distribution while awaiting their fate.” Police spokesperson in Mankweng, Capt Mohlaka Mashiane said drug abuse has become “a nightmare that our intelligence-driven operations are working towards curbing”. He said they wish those in the know could point them in the direction of drug suppliers as arresting users is of no good if the suppliers still find their next user. He said they hope to run more awareness campaigns in an effort to rid the area of drug addiction. 