POLOKWANE – The conference, which was held at The Ranch Resort from June 3-5 saw 1 200 voting delegates, which was later reduced to 1 185 following the verification process of credentials. The nomination process and subsequent voting for the positions of chairperson, deputy chairperson, secretary, deputy secretary and treasurer got underway after this was finalised. The nominations process The nominations of the majority of candidates were initiated at branch level as was the case with former provincial chairperson, Stanley Chupu Mathabatha, Dickson Masemola, Florence Radzilani, Pule Shai, Danny Msiza, Soviet Lekganyane, Nakedi Kekana Sibanda and Livhuwani Ligaraba. Reuben Madadzhe accepted a nomination as secretary after contestation from the floor that Danny Msiza was not eligible given the circumstances around his alleged involvement in the VBS investment debacle. The former spokesperson of the ANC, Donald Selamolela declined his nomination. Top five results After an election process that ended in the early hours of Saturday morning, the election committee led by Andrew Dipela announced the successful candidacy of all touted leaders from what has been dubbed the ‘third term slate’. Mathabatha secured a comfortable win over Masemola with 781 votes. Former Vhembe mayor, Florence Radzilani will serve as deputy. Soviet Lekganyane lost the provincial secretary position to Rueben Madadzhe while Basikopo Makamu will serve as deputy secretary. Naledi Sibanda-Kekana was elected as new provincial treasurer. Additional members: Out with some of the old and in with the new The election of 30 additional members started on Saturday evening. The full list of the 30-member PEC shows a mix of the old and the new. The newly elected PEC members are: Dr Phophi Ramathuba, Makoma Makurupetje, Thabo Mokone, Mavungu Luruli- Ramakhanya, Rogers Monama, Nkakareng Rakgoale, Jimmy Machaka, Falaza Mdaka, Simon Mathe, Morris Mataboge, Bella Kupa, Kate Bilankulu, Mapula Mokaba, Caroline Mahasela, Mpho Mudau, Maria Thamaga, Essop Mokgonyana, Jeremiah Ngobeni, Violet Mathye, Rosemary Molapo, Cherries Pokane, Kedibone Lebea, Reggie Mokokomme, Solomon Pheedi, Kathutshelo Netshifefe, Soviet Lekganyane, Frans Mokwele, Khumbuso Ntshavheni, Maropene Ramokgopa and Sunny Dlovu. Those who missed the cut for the new PEC include Public Works MEC Dickson Masemola, Education MEC Polly Boshielo, Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Thandi Moraka, Agriculture MEC Nandi Ndalane and the MEC for Treasury, Seaparo Sekoati. In his closing remarks, re-elected chairperson Chupu Mathabatha lauded the conferences for living up to the ANC’s tradition of being a political school. “We did not organise a festival of chairs. I urge all of you to never see the ANC as a platform to entrench factionalism, nor see the ANC as an employment agency. Limpopo is fully behind the organisational renewal project, delegates have committed to this,” Mathabatha said. President urges new leadership to prioritise water provision President Cyril Ramaphosa was received with loud cheers and chants, “Ramaphosa re mo rata kaofela, re tsamaya le yena” (we all love Ramaphosa and will stand by him) seemingly in a unified bid rubberstamping the province’s support for a second term. 