They include cutting-edge camera technology, massive computing power, long-lasting batteries¹, and incredibly immersive displays. Available in Phantom Black, Phantom White, Green and Pink, this sophisticated colour range comes to life with deep hues and haze finishes. The slim symmetrical metal frame is protected by durable Gorilla Glass Victus+ on both the front and back. Samsung has also taken abandoned fishing nets² and turned them into high-performance materials, as part of the build of the devices.
That’s two green thumbs up! These devices will also excite everyone from ardent content-makers to those who seek a professional level of photography lenses and editing tools. The hyper-smart camera is designed to allow in more light, pull out details, and capture colours that will really light up the night using Galaxy’s biggest pixel sensor yet and Adaptive Pixel technology³. The Galaxy S22 and S22+ both have a 50-megapixel main camera, a 10-megapixel telephoto lens, and a 12-megapixel ultra-wide lens. Also, Auto Framing⁴ is quite useful when you want to take a pic of a large group – as it can
recognise up to 10 people and automatically adjust the camera’s focus so that everyone is in frame. Furthermore, the huge all-day battery1 means you’ll spend less time looking at the battery percentage in the middle of a meeting or movie, and even if your battery does run out, you can quickly recharge with 25W fast charging⁶ on the Galaxy S22 and 45W super-fast charging on the Galaxy S22+⁵. The Dynamic AMOLED 2X display on the Galaxy S22 will also impress you, so
whether you choose the Galaxy S22’s 6.1- inch display or the Galaxy S22+’s 6.6-inch screen your eyes will light up⁶. If you’re intrigued by these devices, you can trade in a qualifying older Samsung or non-Samsung device for one of these smartphones⁷. You have until June 30 2022 to get an R5000⁷ discount on your Galaxy S22 or Galaxy S22+ trade-in. If you go to Vodacom, you earn a tariff discount of up to R300 each month⁷. You may not want to pass up this fantastic opportunity. Disclaimers: ¹Estimated against the usage profile of an average/typical user. Independently assessed by Strategy Analytics between 2021.12.08–12.20 in USA and UK with pre-release versions of SM-S901, SM-S906, SM-S908 under default setting using 5G Sub6 networks (NOT tested under 5G mm Wave network). Actual battery life varies by network environment, features and apps used, frequency of calls and messages, number of times charged, and many other factors. The total usage time with fully charged device may vary by usage behaviour.
²Discarded fishing nets are collected through Samsung’s partner that works with local fishermen who collect them from the Indian Ocean and neighbouring coastal areas. Samsung does not directly recover fishing nets from the ocean.
³Adaptive Pixel only works with high resolution photos, not at basic resolution.
⁴Auto Framing only available in Video mode. Auto Framing must be enabled before recording. Certain resolutions and ratios may not be supported. Certain functions may not be available when Auto Framing is on. Only people can be recognised, and there is a limit to how many people may be recognised. Available on Samsung Camera, BlueJeans, Google Duo, Meta Messenger, Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, Cisco Webex Meet, and Zoom. Auto-framing available on select lenses.
⁵Wall charger sold separately; use only Samsung-approved chargers and cables. To avoid injury or damage to your device, do not use incompatible, worn or damaged batteries, chargers or cables.
⁶Display measurements are diagonal; the actual viewable area is smaller due to rounded corners and camera hole. ⁷Terms and conditions apply. The value of the trade-in is based on the condition of the phone traded in and on qualifying phone.