So stop and breathe for a minute while you learn how to practice healthy habits daily to improve your overall physical and mental health by incorporating wellness into your life. And we are not necessarily talking about going to a spa or a yoga retreat. Wellness practices differ from person to person and could be anything from meeting your best friend for coffee regularly or setting aside that hour after work to go for a jog. SOiL share some ideas on how to bring more wellness into all aspects of life with the power of essential oils: Wellness at work
Creating a happy, healthy work environment and giving yourself time to step away from your desk is the goal to bringing wellness practices into the office. A clean and tidy desk area is a great start, as is ergonomic seating and plenty of fresh air. Adding a diffuser with some essential oils to your desk can also make all the difference. Simply add a few drops of these oils to your SOiL Ultrasonic Aroma Diffuser which disperses the essential oils into the air via a fine mist. We love these two options for the office: Inspire: SOiL Inspire Essential Oil Blend containing an uplifting and refreshing blend of lime, mandarin and spearmint to energise and inspire. Health: For a healthier environment, especially during winter, try SOiL Shield Essential Oil Blend – a spicy, citrus, mint blend that creates a barrier against unwanted germs and bacteria to support a healthier environment, immune and respiratory function. Wellness at home
Start with a few basics: good ventilation by keeping windows open when possible, keep the space tidy and clean and, importantly, enjoy the space. If you love taking a bath and you have a bathtub, use it regularly to unwind. If you have a room with a lovely afternoon sun, take some time out to read your favourite book there. One of the easiest ways to set the mood at home is to light a tea candle in your SOiL Ceramic Aroma Burner, add a few drops of your favourite essential oil and allow the scent to infiltrate the room. The candlelight creates a relaxing atmosphere, and your chosen essential oil does the rest. Peace: For a calming, peaceful atmosphere, add a few drops of the SOiL Sleep Blend to your burner or diffuser while you prepare to go to bed or add to your bath water. It contains a blend of soothing herbal extracts: oils of lavender, marjoram and bergamot will help you drift off peacefully in no time. Relaxation: Gently massage some SOiL Baby Massage Oil into your skin before bed to help your body relax. This blend of chamomile, lavender and olive oil will help keep your skin moisturised and help your mind switch off. Energy: For an uplifting or energetic atmosphere, opt for SOiL Energy Blend , with lavender, bergamot, marjoram and vetiver or SOiL Inspire Blend, which contains a refreshing, uplifting and inspiring blend of lime, mandarin and spearmint.