We’ve all had that moment of awe when you walk into a space and it creates a deep emotion within – be it calming, inspiring, energising or warm and welcoming. That’s when you know, it’s a special space. To help you create the same effect in your own home, we’ve gathered some interior inspiration from Italtile:  Bathroom bliss: Bathrooms have become so much more than just the place where you shower and brush your teeth. It has become a home spa experience, a sanctuary and a space of self-care. Think sumptuous floor and wall tiles, the ultimate bathtub, deluxe basins, exquizz mosaic work and crisp designer accessories. And let’s not forget the power of a heavenly shower head! We love the Almar Chrome Multifunctional Spin Stainless Steel Shower Head. that will sweep you away into a dream world of enchanted waterfalls, magic mists and gentle rainfall with three settings – the Fall function, the regular Rain function, and the Spin function. And… you’ll be saving water while you soothe your soul. Opt for a pebble mosaic in soft neutrals in the shower to help bring the outdoors into your bathroom.  Clever kitchen: Walking into a kitchen, you can instantly tell whether it’s the lair of the baker, the entertainer’s stage, or the throne room of Mom of the Year. What will your kitchen say about you? Love to cook or not, every kitchen needs to have certain elements to make it a practical space: ingenious prep spaces, spotless and flawless countertops (XXL tiles are a great option here), cunning gadgetry and the ultimate sink. We are obsessed with the Franke TectoniteTM Sink Collection (exclusive to Italtile), which can withstand 300 degree Celsius for 10 seconds. Bring on those searingly hot pans. And fear not the dropped pot or sharp knife, because this is tough stuff.  Dreamy bedrooms: Gone are the days of just ‘going to bed’. Now we’re ‘retiring to the boudoir’, and you can thank jolly old Covid again for this shift of paradigms. The rise of self-care and the importance of nurturing wellness in a time of anxiety, anguish and all-round mental wobbliness has paved the way for the creation of bedrooms that rock us gently to sleep in the arms of deluxe calm. Plush furnishings, subtle lighting, room fragrances and bougie linen go a long way to setting the scene for your bedroom bliss, but honestly, it all starts from the bottom up… and the top down… the ceiling, walls and floor. We’re for wood feels in the bedroom. And in particular, new-age vinyl. Wait, what? Yes. You heard right. The ceiling has been called the fifth wall, and you’ll be amazed what a timber-finished ceiling can do for gentle elegance. Have a look at the Moda Vinile for soft underfoot feels, durability, low maintenance and authentic wood looks, as well as – work with us here – overhead gorgeousness.