MOKOPANE – There was chaos at the Mogalakwena Municipal Council meeting at the Lekalakala Chambers on Monday (May 30). Important issues that affect the municipality were discussed at the ordinary council meeting, which was called off after council did not sit for their quarterly meeting. One issue in particular, the alleged irregular appointment of about 400 employees, caused havoc and eventually the removal of Mayor Thulane Taueastoala for safety reasons. Over the past few years, Bosveld reported that several municipal officials have been taken to disciplinary hearings while others were under investigation for the irregularity of their appointments. Read more: COGHSTA places Mogalakwena Municipality under administration Chief Whip for the DA in Mogalakwena, Daily Mphaho, said the issue is long outstanding and the matter was brought to council’s attention to note that the acting municipal manager, Hendrik Ngoepe, is attending to the issue. It was also noted that the matter should be referred for legal intervention. “Among the ANC members, a counterproposal was made that the matter must be dealt with differently. The speaker, Phaledi Olifant, wanted to continue with other items on the agenda but these members continued to disrupt her and wanted to discuss their counterproposal. Council had to approve the integrated development plan (IDP) for the next financial year, but was unable to do so as a result of these disruptions.” Mphaho said if the IDP is not approved, the municipality will render services without a plan in place. He urged the ANC to sort out their sectional battles as they are the ruling party. “They are the majority and if they collapse the council, it would demonstrate that they are more concerned about their position and power than about the community. Their internal quarrels should not disrupt council meetings.” According to Mphaho, these 400 employees cost the municipality R2.8m. “These workers are mostly ghost workers. They are employed, but we have never seen them.” He said that Taueastoala is “trying his utmost best to steer the municipality in the right direction” but that his party works against him. “To stop the management from proceeding with the legal process, is to stop the municipality from self-correction and people are still willing to protect the corruption.” Read more: Spending catches up with Mogalakwena Municipality ANC Mogalakwena sub-region chairperson Petrus Mohlabisi explained no decision can be made without the approval of council. “Even though the decision was taken by previous councillors, the matter was still brought before them for authorisation and it cannot be reversed now.” Mohlabisi said the municipality is responsible to ensure that the correct procedures are followed when it comes to employment. He said it is the responsibility of the new councillors to find solutions for the decisions that were already taken by the council. “The final say is not up to individuals but rather decided by what the majority wants.” Mohlabisi explained that the council legalised the matter the day that the appointment letters were issued. “You cannot go to the employees now and claim that their appointments were illegal. The issue cannot be resolved as it is already done.” He urged council to not discuss matters that were already finalised and said they should rather focus on present issues and the way forward. “We want to see the municipality function well again and we want to see that the community and rate payers get the services they pay for every month.” At the time Bosveld went to print, municipal communications head Malasela Selokela noted the incident but did not provide comment on the matter. Taueastoala was unavailable for comment. 