We don’t expect the doctor to add one flowering plant to your prescription for a bad cold, but here’s a thought. During winter, when the air is very dry, the lack of humidity can be a factor in the spread of infection. Flowers and plants add moisture to the air, which helps with dry throats and coughs, helping to shorten the downtime from infection. Flowering houseplants combine the power of flowers that hit the happy button with the oxygenating power of leafy plants that improve the quality of air in the home. They also last far longer than a bunch of flowers. Winter flowering beauties Daffodils indoors? Anything is possible these days and indoor daffodils are sunshine in a pot. For long lasting flowers, place them near a window for bright filtered light, but away from direct sunlight that reduces the life of the flowers, and may burn the leaves.  Water once a week, or less, when the top 10cm of soil begins to feel dry. If the plant is standing on a saucer, empty the water that drains through after 30 minutes. Soggy soil can rot the bulbs. Also twist off the dead flowers. https://lvgplant.co.za/portfolio/daffodils/ Tulips are exotic, colourful and best of all are happy to bloom indoors.  A pot of tulips will flower for a month or more because each pot contains more than one bulb. The secret is to buy a pot with mostly closed buds because each bloom only lasts a week. To bring the tulips into flower , place the pot where it receives plenty of bright, indirect light but not direct sun because this makes the blooms go over faster. Let the potting soil dry out moderately before watering. Cyclamens are the longest flowering winter houseplants and will keep on flowering if kept in a warm room with plenty of bright indirect light. Don’t over water, rather keep the soil slightly moist. Fertilise once a month with a liquid fertiliser for flowers. Remove dead flowers by pulling out the stem from the base of the plant. This will encourage it to produce more flowers. https://lvgplant.co.za/portfolio/cyclamen/  Long lasting favourites
Anthurium flower all year round and don’t just think red (although it is a good colour for winter). There is flamingo pink, salmon orange, deep red, white and green. Plants range in size from mini’s to large leafy beauties. With the right care, these plants are almost indestructible, lasting for many years if grown in bright indirect light in a warm room. Let the soil dry out slightly between watering and don’t let the plant stand in water.  Anthurium – LVG (lvgplant.co.za) Tuberous Begonias probably have the widest flower colour range of all indoor plants and can be expected to flower for two to three months. They thrive in bright to medium indirect light and a warm room. Water sparingly because they are susceptible to root rot. Push your finger into the potting mix and if it is still moist, delay watering by a day. Fertilise with a liquid fertiliser for flowers once a month.
https://lvgplant.co.za/portfolio/begonia-2/  Good to know: Indoor plants don’t like extremes of temperatures; keep them away from heaters and windows because of the lower night temperatures. www.lvgplant.co.za