“Never underestimate the power of a simple detail. It can transform even the excellent into the exceptional,” says red-winemaker, Zinaschke Steyn. “Ask anyone who treasures their craft, who works fully with their hands, heart and mind, and they will tell you the same.” She is referring to Nederburg’s exciting new Double Barrel Reserve, a Bordeaux-style wine with a special new touch. It brings together the winery’s hallmark Cabernet Sauvignon in classic combination with Cabernet Franc, Merlot, Petit Verdot and Malbec. What makes that deliciously proportioned blend stand apart, though, lies in the detail of the maturation of its components. “Each of the five varieties was individually vinified and that included their ageing in contact with French oak for 12 months,” explains Steyn. “However, the Merlot portion was taken from barrel after nine months, then blended and returned to barrel for a further three months of maturation. All components were then combined to achieve what we believe is a beautifully balanced whole. Call this double barrel process a small detail, but it delivers a significant impact. It has turned a terrifically juicy, succulent and appetising wine into one with the finest-grained silky texture and a thrilling richness and depth. “Nose it, taste it and love it. I certainly do! Think sun-ripened blueberries and juicy cherries on the nose and in the mouth. I take such pleasure in sipping it at the end of the day when I’m relaxing but I also when indulging in my favourite Mzansi foods.” Visit www.nederburg.com for more information. One of two hampers made up of a six-bottle case of Nederburg’s new Double Barrel Reserve 2020, plus a copy each of Sifo: The Cooking Husband and Beer Country’s Pots, Pans and Potjies by Greg Gilowey and Karl Tessendorf, all valued at R1 380.* To enter, visit www.penguinrandomhouse.co.za/competitions. Ts & Cs apply. Entries close 30 June 2022. *Competition only open to individuals over the age of 18 years. This article was originally published in The Penguin Post, a magazine about books for book lovers from Penguin Random House South Africa.     RECIPE: Biltong Spice Crusted Lamb Rump with a Chakalaka Sauce and Pap Chips Serves 4 INGREDIENTS MEAT SAUCE CHIPS METHOD
Preheat the oven to 180°C. Season the meat well and drizzle with olive oil. Pop the lamb into a non-stick pan (skin side down). Cook for approximately 5 minutes and then turn. Cook for another 3 minutes. Drizzle the tops with olive oil again and coat in biltong spice mix. Place the lamb rump into a roasting dish and place in the oven. Roast for 15 minutes or until cooked to your liking. Leave to rest for 5-8 minutes before slicing and serving. For the sauce, blend all the ingredients together and season well. For the chips, heat the milk, boiling water, and stock until simmering and whisk in the cornmeal. Turn the heat down and leave to simmer until thick and cooked – about 20 minutes. Add the cheese, butter and parsley and check the seasoning. Line a roasting tray with clingfilm and spoon the cooked cornmeal into the tray. Press it out equally so that the cornmeal is about 1cm thick. Leave to cool and set completely and then refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Cut into chips (approximately 1cm wide and 6/7cm long). Roll each chip in the extra cornmeal before frying. Heat oil (about 8cm deep) in a medium to large saucepan until hot. Test the oil by dropping something into the oil and checking whether it simmers. Fry the chips in the oil until golden brown and drain on a paper towel. Serve with the lamb, sauce and Nederburg’s Double Barrel Reserve 2020.