LIMPOPO – We demand water and we are tired of being taken for granted!” These were the words of EFF Limpopo coordinator Rebecca Mohlala who led the march to Musina Municipality where they recently handed over a memorandum. Angry residents of Musina went on a rampage last month, demanding water and during this protest action they reportedly set two cars alight and blocked the streets and N1 with burning tyres and stones. Read more: Mayhem in Musina: Boreholes drilled to address water issues Residents smashed the windows of the fire station and also set the municipal office alight at Nancefield, damaging municipal and police vehicles in the process. Protesters demanded a regular supply of clean water and that sewage be fixed timeously. The community of Musina is calling on the municipality to find a lasting solution to its water woes. “We have come here to formally raise our grievances with the municipality so that they can take our demands seriously. The Vhembe District Municipality has no heart for the community. How can they drill a borehole and leave it not functioning sufficiently to supply water to thirsty residents?” She said that her organisation had been interacting with the local municipality for a long time, but nothing fruitful had come of it. Mohlala said the community of Musina is worried about the inconsistent water supply in her area. She said she had to buy water from other residents who had drilled their own boreholes. “I have a big family and it becomes very costly to buy water every time. A 20l container of water costs R5 and I use about four or five of those per day. This is really a serious issue since I am unemployed. Now they have drilled a borehole, so what is holding back the pumping of water to the community?” said Mohlala. She urged the municipality to supply the community with constant water. The municipality was given seven days to respond to the demand. The group handed over a memorandum, which was signed by the chief financial officer of the Musina Municipality, Thomas Nephawe. After signing the memorandum, Nephawe promised that he would send the memorandum to the relevant department. The Vhembe District Municipality spokesperson, Matodzi Rushai confirmed that the Vhembe Municipality has drilled six boreholes and that Venetia Mine drilled four boreholes. He said that the technician are installing pumps, and that the water shortage at Musina will soon be a thing of the past. 