LIMPOPO – A slow convoy of protesting drivers from the Makhado Long Distance Taxi Association (Malta) and the Louis Trichardt-Musina Taxi Association held up traffic along the main route on the N1 to Polokwane last Tuesday as they staged a go-slow drive to the Department of Roads and Transport in the capital city. Protesting drivers drove from Louis Trichardt to Polokwane without ferrying commuters, while some commuters attempted to hitch rides from private motorists to get to Polokwane and their place of work during a go-slow to the Department of Roads and Transport in the capital city. Read more: TRAFFIC ALERT: Taxi protest causes congestion on N1 north The LTT-Musina Taxi Association and Malta operators accuse the Beitbridge Taxi Association (BTA) of invading their territory, despite a ruling that was made to the contrary by the Polokwane High Court in 2019. The ruling came into effect in 2020 after the same conflicts between the associations flared up and the BTA was prohibited from operating on the Musina-to-Louis Trichardt route, as well as the Musina-to-Polokwane route. The Department of Roads and Transport, as well as the police were instructed by the court to enforce the law by issuing fines and arresting BTA members, should they operate on these routes. The LTT-Musina Taxi Association and Malta members complained that the court order was not being implemented as, still in 2020, their members were intimidated by BTA members who blocked their entrance to the Musina Taxi Rank to prevent them from operating. Four BTA members were arrested at the time. The chairperson of the Makhado Long Distance Taxi Association, Mathakha Maliaga explained that their taxis have not been able to transport Musina commuters for four years now, as their vehicles are sent away by BTA members. He accused Transport of failing to implement the court order, which ruled in their favour. “Taxi owners demand that government intervene to stop pirate taxis from transporting commuters, and we will suspend their operations until they intervene.” He added that in April, a memorandum was handed over at the Office of the Premier, and the Department of Transport for the attention of the MEC, Mavhungu Lerule Ramakhanya. They were given seven days to respond to their demands, but neither of the two departments have responded to the memorandum to date. This is the reason, according to Maliaga why they took a go-slow drive along the main route on the N1 to Polokwane to the department. “I hope that government will start to protect us. These illegal taxis must be removed. The situation is only worsening,” said Maliaga. Commuters who had to get to work, however, were not sympathetic. “I left home at 05:00 hoping that I would get available transport, but it is clear that there is no transport for us. It is tough for us. Commuters are at the shortest end because of these disputes over routes. They should resolve their issues because we can’t go the work and on top of that, it is cold,” one of the commuters said. The letter was received and signed by the Acting Head of Transport, Steve Matjena on June 7. He said they received complaints from the two associations and that the department commits to a plan of action. Matjena said that on June 9 officials from his department, the police and officials from the Musina Municipality would be ushering the taxi association to the taxi rank to see that their operations run smoothly. He also said that they would follow up on old cases. 