POLOKWANE – Seshego police and by-law enforcement officers from the Polokwane Municipality had to fire stun grenades to disperse demonstrating residents of Seshego Zone 5 who recently barricaded the area of extensions 126 and 127 next to Zone 5 where they erected shacks. The residents told Polokwane Observer that they decided to erect corrugated iron structures (shacks) after the municipality cleared the area in preparation to move residents from the informal settlements of Freedom Park and Extension 106. Residents said they decided to forcefully take the land as the municipality didn’t consider adding those in need of yards onto the list of those who will be moving to the area. On Friday, a police official served the residents with a court order urging them to stop erecting structures on the land. Some residents who watched as their structures were demolished said they feel disregarded by government. One resident who spoke on condition of anonymity said: “This is like Apartheid all over again. These people came here and begged us to vote for them and now they are shooting at us like we are nothing”. Another resident said: “This government is seriously deciding to move us from a land when our children are in need of homes and we have been on waiting lists forever”. The leaders of Seshego Concerned Housing Community Duncan Langa and Beef Nkoana were arrested on site. The spokesperson for Polokwane municipality Thipa Selala told Polokwane Observer that they view the erection of structures by the residents after a court order was issued, as an attempt to disrupt the municipality’s plans. “Our court order dates back to 2015 and was not specific to an individual. It referred to any other person who might occupy the land. The order is still valid given that no one challenged it.” Now that the demolishing of the illegal structures is completed, the municipality’s plans to resume the relocation of residents from Freedom Park and Extension 106 to the earmarked land, are afoot. Also read: WATCH: Residents revolt against demolitions in Seshego Zone 5 