Clubfoot is a birth condition that affects the bones, muscles, tendons, and blood vessels of the foot. The forefoot of the foot curves inward while the heel points downward. Under extreme conditions, the foot is rotated to the point where the bottom of the foot faces up or laterally rather than down. Many parents discover that their child has clubfoot during a prenatal ultrasound months or weeks before birth. Once the infant is delivered, the problem is readily apparent. Ideally, treatment should begin within a child’s first month of life. The good news is that the vast majority of children with clubfoot who receive early treatment can run, play, and function normally. Without therapy, however, clubfoot will not improve. The foot will remain in the malformed posture, making it difficult for your child to walk. If only one foot is afflicted: Most children with clubfoot do not inherit the affliction from their parents. However, having an older sibling with clubfoot raises the likelihood that a kid may be born with the ailment. Additional risk elements include: Babies born with clubfoot may also be more likely to acquire developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH). In DDH, the femur slips in and out of its socket because the socket is too shallow to maintain the integrity of the joint. Most clubfeet are idiopathic, meaning that doctors are uncertain as to their cause. Clubfoot is most likely inherited and runs in families. However, researchers do not yet know which gene or genes are responsible. Tightness of the muscles and tendons surrounding the foot and ankle keep the foot in its distinctive downward and inward posture in all children with clubfoot. This tightness may be caused by variations in blood circulation or nerve signal reception in the affected legs. Other hypotheses about the aetiology of clubfeet include problems in the development of the bones, tendons, or muscles, as well as a mechanical obstruction in utero. However, these theories remain unverified. In some instances, clubfoot is a symptom of a condition or congenital abnormality. In other instances, the foot was positioned awkwardly in the womb. However, most children are born with clubfoot for unknown reasons. Typically, clubfoot is detected during a prenatal ultrasound before a child is born. About 10% of clubfeet can be detected as early as 13 weeks into pregnancy, while about 80% of clubfeet can be diagnosed by 24 weeks. If a child is not diagnosed prior to delivery, clubfoot might be seen and diagnosed at birth. Generally, a physical examination is sufficient to establish a diagnosis. In rare instances, additional testing, including: The objective of clubfoot treatment is to restore the foot’s position so that the bones, tendons, and muscles can develop normally. Ideally, treatment should begin within one month of a child’s birth, when their feet and ankles are at their earliest developmental stage. The Ponseti technique is the most prevalent and efficient treatment for clubfoot. This treatment employs a succession of casts and braces to correct the position of the infant’s foot. The foot is externally rotated till it is turned out between 60 and 70 degrees. Typically, treatment begins between birth and four weeks of age and consists of two phases: treatment and bracing. Using a series of casts, the doctor will gradually realign your child’s foot during the treatment phase. This step involves stretching and repositioning the foot for two to three months. Clubfoot bracing is essential to your child’s long-term mobility and lasts for several years. The brace preserves the correct position of your child’s foot. From the conclusion of the treatment phase until three to six months of age, your child will wear the brace for about 22 hours per day. After this initial period, your child’s doctor will likely provide permission for the brace to be worn at night and during naps, around 15 or 16 hours each day. When your child is ready to learn how to crawl, walk, run, and play, the brace can be removed. Good to know: You must completely adhere to the bracing regimen until your child reaches the age of four. This is the most effective approach to prevent your child’s foot from twisting again and requiring additional medical treatment despite the inconvenience. The vast majority of infants with clubfoot who receive early therapy and bracing develop typically functioning feet. They can run and play while wearing regular shoes. If only one foot is afflicted, the affected foot will usually be smaller and less mobile than the unaffected foot. Your child may need shoes in two different sizes. The affected leg may be slightly smaller than the other, and the calf may be less muscular.