The best-selling Suzuki Swift sold 1 764 units in May, with an overall new record of 4 331 new cars – 630 units up on its April sales. The new record means that Suzuki was also South Africa’s favourite passenger vehicle brand in May, outselling every other vehicle marque and firmly establishing itself as the third-largest manufacturer on the industry sales roster. “As a company, our growth strategy over the years could be compared to that of bamboo. Bamboo spends its early years growing a strong root system that can support its stems. To the naked eye, it appears that it is not growing at all, but once it has established the right roots, the bamboo shoots into the sky at a rapid pace.  “Since opening our doors in South Africa in 2008, we have spent a lot of time, energy and money on establishing a strong dealer network, a healthy head office team, and a large parts warehouse that can deliver on our brand promise of value for money and great customer service. Now, with a network of 81 dealers, we are seeing the strong growth that a firmly established root system can deliver,” said Henno Havenga, manager of auto dealer sales at Suzuki Auto. To top the number of new records by the company, Naamsa, the industry business council, reported that the Suzuki Swift was South Africa’s best-selling vehicle in May with sales of 1 764 units (including the Swift Sport). The S-Presso (783 units), Vitara Brezza (530 units), Jimny (428 units) and Ertiga (305 units) completed the list of five best-selling Suzuki models. “The announcement of our new record and the new dealer sales record comes a few days before we celebrate the best-performing dealers at the 2021/22 Dealer of the Year Awards,” said Havenga.  “Every year the competition for the title of the Suzuki Dealer of the Year becomes fiercer as more dealers enter our elite and platinum tiers for high-performing dealers with exemplary customer service. This year is no different, and we look forward to announcing the top performers next week.” Suzuki has just launched the new Baleno. “The Baleno sets a new standard for value for money,” said Brendon Carpenter, brand marketing manager of Suzuki Auto South Africa.  “With luxuries such as climate control, an infotainment system with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, as well as top-model features such as heads-up display and a round-view camera system, we hope to set a new standard for the compact hatchback market and welcome even more people to the Suzuki family.” Source: MotorPress