POLOKWANE – President Cyril Ramaphosa has sworn to work with law enforcement in their investigations surrounding a criminal complaint laid by the Former State Security Agency Director-General, Arthur Fraser. Last Wednesday (June 1), Fraser issued a letter revealing that he has laid charges of theft and kidnapping against Ramaphosa and alleges that there was a theft of $4m cash from the President’s Phala-Phala farm in the Waterberg district in February 2021. You might also want to read: JUST IN: Chupu Mathabatha re-elected as ANC Limpopo chairperson Fraser equally alleges the suspects were found, detained, and paid to keep quiet about the discovery of the said hard cash. During his closing remarks at the 10th ANC Limpopo elective conference on Sunday (June 5), Ramaphosa acknowledged the public interest and concern over the complaint and said he remains fully focused on the tasks given to him by the people of South Africa. “I want to reaffirm that I was not involved in any criminal conduct and once again pledge my full cooperation,” he said.  Ramaphosa told delegates that he is a farmer and the money in question was attained through transactions of game. “I want to make it clear that I will continue to fight corruption and it’s clear that there is a political agenda and we are all aware of that, but it will not deter me from fighting corruption because I have never stolen tax payers money,” he told delegates. "I have never stolen tax payers money" President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed allegations made against him during his closing remarks at the #ANCLimpopoConference on Sunday at the Ranch Resort outside Polokwane. #ANCLimpopo pic.twitter.com/13xw8iiBlj — Polokwane Observer (@PolokwaneObserv) June 6, 2022  He also said the purported amount revealed by Fraser is misleading and the exact figure is a lot lower. Whilst speaking to journalists just after closing the conference, he refused to disclose how much the amount is, urging journalists to rather respect that the matter is being investigated by law enforcement. 