Creating room for a baby can be tricky when you live in a small space. But with a bit of creativity and some smart design tips, your bundle of joy will be just as cosy. Here are some decorating tips to help transform your tiny nursery into an ostensibly roomy and functional space. WATCH : READY TO RENOVATE Choose light colours to make the room feel bigger and brighter. Conversely, dark hues absorb light making a small room look even smaller. A monochromatic colour scheme minimises visual breaks, making a small space seem much larger. For example, paint the ceiling the same colour as the walls – or go one shade lighter – to create the effect of a vaulted ceiling and make the room seem more spacious. Wall trims or mouldings should be in a lighter colour than the walls. A light trim makes the wall behind it recede, so it seems further away. Painting one accent wall creates the illusion of depth and provides a focal point for a mural or other architectural feature. Painting the insides of shelving units or windows in a different shade will create visual interest. Create the illusion of space using various patterns. For example, horizontal stripes can make a room appear wider, whereas vertical stripes accentuate height. However, a pattern shouldn’t overwhelm your space, so use bold, large-scale patterns sparingly and beware of overly busy motifs. Instead, choose a clean, repetitive pattern with just one or two colours, and break up patterned sections with large blocks of solid, neutral colours. Natural light makes small spaces appear bright and airy. For window coverings, install sheer curtains or light-blocking blinds, which can be lowered when needed and will also save space. Mirrors and other shiny surfaces reflect natural light, brightening the space and making it appear larger. As a general rule, opt for simple furniture with clean lines and a light finish. Keep in mind that the idea is to create space – not to fill up the room. Children need space to play, so the fewer furniture items you need, the better it is in a small room where every centimetre counts.