“We are expecting one huge display of petrolhead festivity, after such a long break,” says organiser Paulo Calisto. “The last mid-winter Classic Car Show was in 2019 and Gauteng’s huge classic car fraternity has been starved of the opportunity to give their machinery a proper outing. So our July 3 event is going to be very special.
“For this 2022 show, the older classic cars will enter Nasrec at gate 5, and not gate 2, as they have done in the past. The Japan versus German modern classics, such as customised VW Golfs, BMWs, Honda Civics and Toyota Corollas, will still use gate 2 as in the past. “At previous shows, because of the huge popularity of the event, the access to Nasrec was often slow and led to traffic jams. This year, entry and exit will be much easier, with gate 5 located on the south side of the Nasrec venue. The older cars will have a much easier entry and exit, and for this year’s show they will also be parked near the gate 5 entrance.” Mustangs, Camaros, Chargers, Escort Sports, MGs and more This year’s show is again expected to attract the most impressive display of American muscle cars anywhere in South Africa. For fans of Ford Mustangs, Chevrolet Camaros and Corvettes, Dodge Challengers and Chargers, Cadillacs and Buicks, Nasrec will be the place to feast your eyes and ears on July 3 2022! The Classic Car Show has traditionally been the place for many custom car builders to reveal their new creations. And this year’s show is expected to host a number of cars that have been in the process of restoration for the past few years. American muscle car culture is diverse, and extends through the street rod movements that started in the late 1930s to the 1970s and early 1980s. The Classic Car Show is notable for some concours-level Chevys, and there are various favourites amongst show-goers. The 1955-to-1957 Chevy models are seen as iconic, and the show at Nasrec regularly attracts up to two dozen of these examples. Then there are the early 1960s Chevy classics which have become fashionable amongst restorers in recent years. These cars are notable for their massive boots and sleek, flat designs, rather than the outlandish rocket-era tailfins which distinguished the American cars from the 1950s. Cadillacs are all cool as far as The Classic Car Show is concerned, and over the years visitors have been lucky enough to see all manner of Cadillacs, notably the 1959 models, which are acknowledged as having the tallest tail fins of all from the 1950s era of fins and flash. Ford Mustang models were launched to the world in April 1964 and South Africa had its first taste of early Mustangs in 1965. These were all special-import left-hand-drive models which became available here in limited numbers. In 1967 the Mustang grew slightly, as it did in 1969 and then 1971. All these different styles have their fans, and the most famous shape of Mustang today is probably the 1967 edition, which provided the basis for the ‘Gone in 60 Seconds’ movie Mustang, known as Eleanor. Mustangs have only been freely available for sale here in right-hand-drive form since late 2015. More than just American muscle While American cars have always been hugely popular at The Classic Car Show, collectable cars from Europe and the UK are also extremely desirable. South Africa is fortunate in that we have had cars from all the major manufacturers in Italy, France, England and Japan selling their products here, dating back, in some cases, to over a century ago. British MGs, Triumph TR3s and Spitfires, Ford Escorts and Cortinas, BMC Minis from the 1960s – all these marques have been regular attendees during the past decade at Nasrec.
Classic Renaults in the form of Dauphines, R8 Gordinis and special-edition R5s are also favourites at the show. And of course, from Germany, there will be dozens and dozens of classic Volkswagen Beetles, Kombis, Karmann Ghias, Type 3s, and the like. Japan versus Germany Show organiser Paulo Calisto had the brainstorm to organise a Japan vs Germany confrontation at Nasrec almost a decade ago, and the rivalry between these two lands of origin in the so-called young-timer classic division has been intense. These “young timer” collectors favour the likes of hot Toyota Corollas in TRD and RSi form, and Golf GTis and special Jettas. Many of these cars have been radically modified in terms of turbocharging kits, lowered suspension, audacious sound systems and, of course, immaculate paint jobs. Honda is also a big player in this battleground, and expect many an exotic version of Honda’s Civic hatchback to be seen and heard southwest of Joburg on July 3. As in the past, the emphasis will be on family entertainment, and there will be many activities, including live music, drifting, a flea market and affordable helicopter rides. Talking of affordability, The Classic Car Show is affordable fun for the whole family.
Tickets cost R80 for adults, while children under 12 pay R20.
Tickets for adults cost R60 if booked through Computicket.
The show runs from 08:00 to 16:00 on Sunday, July 3.
Partners in the 2022 show’s organising are Cartrack and Lavida Vodka.
Exhibitors are invited to enter the Nasrec grounds from 07:00 on July 3. Source: MotorPress