Known as “The magazine about books for book lovers”, The Penguin Post is a first for Penguin Random House South Africa (PRHSA). Having been faced with a decline in platforms available on which to publicise their books during the hard lockdown of 2020, the publisher innovated with an original marketing concept that filled the gaping hole left by multiple magazine closures, and offered a unique product for their audience of avid readers. Now in its second year, the magazine has gone from strength to strength, building up its reputation as an expert voice in the book publishing industry, and reaffirming PRHSA as a leader in its field. It was also recently nominated as a finalist in the IAB Bookmark Awards for Publishing Innovation, with the awards ceremony taking place in Johannesburg later this month on the 28th of July 2022.  The magazine – which features interesting and informative news, views and interviews around PRHSA’s diverse stable of titles and their authors – goes out both digitally and in print to 140 book shops across South Africa. What’s more is that it’s completely free! Those wanting to sign up to the digital version of the publication, which links to extra content such as extracts, recipes and competitions, can do so at www.penguinrandomhouse.co.za/penguin-post. To celebrate two years, the magazine is giving away hampers of signed copies from some of the publisher’s biggest authors – including Harlan Coben, James Patterson, Marian Keyes and the writer behind The Handmaid’s Tale, Margaret Atwood – valued at R3 000 each. Entry details can be found in Volume 19 of The Penguin Post, out now. Find it at www.penguinrandomhouse.co.za/penguin-post-latest-issue Volume 19 will be available from now until the end of August, and has everything from inspiring memoirs and gritty true crime to cookbooks that’ll get the taste buds tingling and a book on the world of grasses. So, cosy up and happy reading! This article was originally published in The Penguin Post, a magazine about books for book lovers from Penguin Random House South Africa.