It’s no secret that teenagers, especially active teenage boys, eat a lot. Parents of teenage boys know the drill. It’s just an hour after your son’s last meal and he’s already famished. He is eating you out of house and home! His appetite is akin to an African elephant and you can’t fill the fridge up quickly enough. If your teen is constantly complaining of being hungry, you might wonder what the cause of this is and whether it’s normal. When in doubt, never hesitate to consult with your child’s doctor to rule out a health issue as the cause of his constant hunger. As boys enter puberty, they frequently feel hungrier and consume more food. This is because their bodies undergo a significant growth surge throughout adolescence. Extra food provides your child with more nutrients and energy to help growth and development. In addition to growth spurts, teens may be continually hungry due to bad eating habits, such as skipping meals, according to HealthyChildren.org. Leaving the house without eating breakfast might cause adolescents to remain hungry all morning, perhaps leading to overeating later or prompting your teen to nibble throughout the day without ever having a real meal. If you send your teen to school with a packed lunch from home, they won’t need to buy tuckshop snacks. Packing a prepared lunch allows you to control what your teen son eats and ensures that the food they consume for lunch will supply them with the energy they need to go through the afternoon. When it comes to supper, consistency is key. If your son knows they’ll be eating supper at the same time every day, they’ll be less tempted to munch on unhealthy snacks and junk food. Although teenagers like junk food, there are healthier options. Serve oven-baked fries instead of fast-food french fries that are deep-fried in oil. Grilled chicken can also be used in place of fried chicken or processed chicken nuggets. Most importantly, whether it’s a crisp green salad or steamed broccoli or cauliflower, always add a vegetable as a side dish. How much should teen boys eat? Teenagers (boys and girls) should consume three meals and two snacks daily. Feed your teen extra if he still appears hungry after eating the recommended amount. Keep healthy foods on hand and provide well-rounded meals. A bowl of yoghurt or a handful of almonds are healthier snacks than a chocolate bar if your teen is feeling peckish. A surge in appetite is common in boys, especially during the growth spurt of puberty. What exactly are growth spurts? Children grow in predictable patterns. While each child is unique and will develop at their own speed until reaching physical maturity between the ages of 15 and 20, growth spurts are common during puberty (typically between ages nine and 15). Calories are the measurement used to express the energy delivered by food. The body demands more calories during early adolescence than at any other time of life. Children who participate in physical activity may need additional calories. Parents may find the below chart useful when determining how many calories their teen son needs: 