POLOKWANE – Kgahlego Rasebotsa’s entrepreneurial journey started with a fear of being another unemployed statistic in the country when she decided to sell cushions in pop-up stores. The Fauna Park resident told the Polokwane Review that she always knew she would start her own company but that interior design was a far-fetched thought. She then decided to sell scatter cushions before slowly venturing into being an interior designer. “Scatter cushions have always been my favorite accessory because they have a way of transforming a space into something wonderful without anybody noticing and because of this, I ventured into interior design as there was a strong demand for my products,” she said. Kgahlego was unemployed for almost a year and said the thought of staying at home and not doing anything is something she feared the most. “One day my mom and siblings walked into a fabric store where I chose the fabrics I needed to use for the scatter cushions and decided to sell them in my first pop-up store back in 2016,” she said. Interior Bubble manufactures a range of office and home furniture and specializes in interior décor. For someone who gradually fell in love with designing people’s spaces, Kgahlego has shown that she fits well in the industry she got into by choice. She was named in the Forbes Africa #30Under30 list in 2019 and at the time, said her mission is to become a top furniture supplier to luxury homes in Africa. She says the smiles on her clients’ faces once the work is done and the dozen “thank you’s” she receives are the best feeling. Kgahlego believes making cushions paved a way for her to be where she is today and that is why she still sells cushions. “Scatter Cushions are my babies as they made me who I am today. I will never stop selling them.” She considers herself as a self- taught designer who looks forward to inspiring other women to learn skills they can build into businesses. “I love lifting people’s moods by giving them a full experience when it comes to decorating their homes. I’m the lady that turns your houses into homes,” she said. Kgahlego is available on 076 473 0778 and on Facebook (InteriorBubble). 