Guzzle, South Africa’s leading print and digital catalogue aggregation portal, has turned 11 this July. Pioneered by visionary business leaders Ric Meulemans & Oliver Bryant in 2011, Guzzle has firmly established itself as the trusted and reliable retail shopping platform for consumers looking for great deals. Guzzle’s credibility and progression over the years have seen this platform enlist retail giants such as JD Group & Clicks Group from way back in 2012-2013, with many others following suit. This rapid growth necessitated the platform switch from product listings (only) to interactive catalogues + product listings. Understanding the needs of these large retailers, necessitated the rapid growth from a product listings (only) platform to one with interactive catalogues + product listings around this period. These innovative developments have enabled Guzzle to proudly become the only South African based (locally based team) catalogue aggregator business website which holds commercial relationships with SA retailers & brands.  This strong business position has translated into over 700 000 monthly users totalling more than 11.4 million page views with very active social media accounts on Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn. As Guzzle turns a year older, a new-look Guzzle will be introduced end of July / early August. The new Guzzle look will enable a better user experience making the discovery of new specials, new brands and products more prominent. New features include updated catalogue view options, a personalised content feed, the ability to save a catalogue page to your new Guzzle account dashboard, etc. To mark this momentous occasion and acknowledge the role shoppers play in achieving business success, Guzzle, during its birthday month, is conducting an interactive quiz with x30 Takealot Vouchers up for grabs, worth R500 each. “We got through the harshest of lockdowns unscathed as well as the looting unrest while helping our retail partners navigate through it. Times are tough for both consumers and retailers, and we are in the middle, assisting both. As always, our retail partners will continue to receive viewership from our ever-growing audience, while a host of updates will enable the audience to locate specific retailer/brand specials quicker, with a smoother browsing experience. We’d like to thank the retailers that have stuck with us through the years, as well as our loyal audience. A new-look Guzzle is on the way!” emphasised Muntasir Bester, CEO, Guzzle Media. Shoppers and the broad consumer market can toast to catalogues in digital and print offering great deals from South Africa’s leading retailers, product launches, retail trends, product developments, regulatory developments, retail insights and tips, etc., on Guzzle. Happy Birthday, Guzzle! You can take part of the quiz here, during the month of July 2022, to stand a chance of winning one of 30 Takealot vouchers worth R500 each. Closing date for the quiz is 8 Aug 2022.  