After 67 years and rapidly changing trends, the Crown has been unable to meet the diversifying needs of its customers and its presence as a flagship vehicle has become less significant. In designing the new Crown, the development team thoroughly re-examined what “Crown” is, and as a result of their pursuit of a “Crown for a new era,” it has created four completely new models. In addition to the Crossover type, a new style that combines a sedan and an SUV, the Sport offers a sporty driving experience with an enticing atmosphere and an easy-to-drive package.  The Sedan is a new formal design that meets the needs of chauffeurs, and the Estate is a functional SUV with a mature atmosphere and ample driving space. The new series will be rolled out in about 40 countries and regions. Effortless and dignified driving befitting that of a luxury flagship The 2.4-liter, turbo hybrid system combines an inline 4-cylinder turbo engine that produces powerful torque even at low RPM, the latest e-Axle electric powertrain that provides high driving torque, and a newly-developed bipolar nickel-hydrogen battery have been combined for the first time by Toyota. The hybrid system responds linearly to the operation of the accelerator by the driver creating a driving feel with a sense of comfortable acceleration.  The 2.5-liter series parallel hybrid system is equipped with an optimised, high-efficiency hybrid system and a newly-developed bi-polar, nickel-hydrogen battery, achieving class-leading fuel economy and quietness and further advancing the high-quality and smooth driving performance distinctive of the Crown. While the package prioritises ease of entry and exit as well as driving, the TNGA platform provides a lightweight and well-balanced, high-rigidity body. The use of McPherson struts in the front and a multi-link suspension in the rear allows for solid straight-line stability characteristic of the Crown, plus agility, and a ‘flat feeling’ that does not blur the line of sight. All these features, along with a smooth ride with minimal vibration, were pursued to achieve a comfort level that makes you want to stay in the car for a long time.  Advanced safety and driving support systems provide reassuring and convenient driving. Toyota Safety Sense2, the latest active safety package with advanced and improved functions, is standard on all Crown grades. The range of accidents it can respond to has been expanded even further, enabling enjoyable driving with peace of mind. The new Crown (Crossover type) is equipped with Toyota Teammate, a suite of driver-assistance technologies. Advanced Drive3 (support during traffic congestion), which supports safe driving in traffic congestion, Advanced Park3 (with remote function), which automatically parks and exits from a parking space in a variety of parking situations and can be operated remotely as well, and other safety and convenient advanced functions are included.  Local Introduction The all-new Toyota Crown (in Crossover guise) will make its debut in the South African market in Q1 of 2023, forming part of Toyota South Africa Motors’ continued new energy vehicle (NEV) product rollout. More details will be shared closer to launch timing. Source: MotorPress