The new Hyundai Ioniq 6 is aerodynamically sculpted and makes innovative use of sustainable materials to reflect today’s EV customers’ values. “The Ioniq 6 connects an emotional convergence of functionality with aesthetics,” said SangYup Lee, executive vice president and head of Hyundai Design Centre. “The distinctive streamlined design is the result of close cooperation between engineers and designers, with obsessive attention to detail and customer-centric values at the core. We have created the Ioniq 6 as a mindful cocoon that offers personalised place for all.”  Ioniq 6’s human-centric design is ethical and unique The Ioniq 6 is an electrified streamliner that realises the idea of emotional efficiency by simultaneously satisfying the customer’s aesthetic and functional needs. The aerodynamically sculpted silhouette with simple yet sensuous curves offers a new typology for the EV mobility era. It has an ultra-low drag coefficient of just 0.21, assisted by its low nose, active air flaps at the front, wheel gap reducers, and optional slim digital side mirrors. Further aiding the Ioniq 6’s enviable aerodynamic aptitude is its elliptical wing-inspired spoiler with winglet, slight boat tail structure and separation traps on both sides of the rear bumper.  The rear wing’s Parametric Pixel High-Mounted Stop Lamp (HMSL) delivers an eye-catching light execution when the brakes are applied. To further highlight the Ioniq 6’s uniqueness, the newly designed Hyundai “H” badge is applied on the front and rear of the vehicle. Cocoon-inspired interior The user-centric interior architecture is exemplified by an ergonomically designed control unit that is centrally located to reduce distraction and spur safe, intuitive driving. The modular touchscreen dashboard integrates a 30cm full-touch infotainment display and 30cm digital cluster. A bridge-type centre console provides convenient and generous in-car storage.  The Ioniq 6 world premiere will take place this July, when Hyundai will reveal the full specifications, including the electrified streamliner’s features and advanced technologies. For more information on the Ioniq 6, visit the campaign page: https://ioniq6.hyundai.com. Source: QuickPic