The Motor Industry Workshop Association (MIWA) is consistently looking at ways to advance skills development in the sector and attract and equip new entrants with the skills necessary to work on modern, constantly evolving vehicles. “We utilise the services of a number of different providers so all MIWA members can have access to the best repair and maintenance software in South African workshops at a competitive price. “HaynesPro WorkshopData from HaynesPro offers a single pathway to OEM-based technical data, covering over 70 car manufacturers and is used extensively throughout many MIWA workshops,” says Pieter Niemand, national director of MIWA. Niemand says access to the information enables users to provide a top-quality service without compromising OEM warranty cover. “Most data is no more than two mouse clicks away with fast and efficient access to the correct data, saving the user precious time,” explains Donovan Hardwick, technical sales manager of Autobooks which hold the licence to HaynesPro in South Africa. As part of the drive to align TVET vocational training with industry needs, HaynesPro has also got involved at entry level to address the needs of the up-and-coming mechanics, so by the time apprentices are ready to enter the job market they are already au fait with the system “Four years ago we introduced HaynesPro WorkshopData into the College of Cape Town, allowing apprentices to help solve complicated electrical faults in the workshop environment. HaynesPro licenses were donated to the College of Cape Town to give trainees the most up-to-date technical and electrical information. The software’s maintenance schedules, repair information, wiring diagrams and the VESA-guided diagnostic system all help trainees to find and replace faulty components,” says Hardwick. Rasheed Adhikari, a facilitator at the College of Cape Town for Centre of Specialisation Motor Mechanic Programme (3 years) comments, “It is now common to see trainees using the software to diagnose vehicles and find the cause of complex faults when even trained technicians could not”. On June 28 a second HaynesPro donation was made to BCS Training Academy. Hardwick says this has proved to be equally successful. Due to the high demand for automotive, and commercial vehicles, apprentice training as well as non-technical training programmes, BCS Training Academy has grown into a successful preferred training facility. Kowie Botha, director of BCS Training Academy, says a common problem it faces is training workshop owners to correctly invoice customers for repairs done on vehicles. HaynesPro buys all its information directly from the manufacturers (OEMs), allowing users to access standard repair times. With accurate repair times, BCS Training Academy can now teach both trainees and workshop owners alike to accurately invoice customers for repairs, while also providing mechanics with repair manuals to do the repairs at an international standard. Hardwick says as the system is cloud based it allows trainees to use HaynesPro both inside and outside the training facility, often creating a side income to pay for their studies. It is a win-win situation and a further three more skills development providers, previously known as training centres, will be selected for a similar donation later this year. “We really commend the work HaynesPro is doing in the sector. It clearly shows its commitment to not only raising standards in our workshops but also impacting the employees of the future. It is important that we all work together and support each other to reach a common goal for the betterment of the workshop industry,” concludes Niemand. Source: Cathy Findley PR.