LIMPOPO – The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in Limpopo has denied wrongdoing on the part of the prosecutor who oversaw the granting of R500 after-hour bail to Matome Matlakala (47) from Mankweng who allegedly killed his girlfriend, Maria Letsoalo (40) after he was released following a charge of intimidation. The EFF held a picket outside the Mankweng Police Station on June 22, demanding the suspension of the prosecutor and police officer who facilitated the granting of bail to Matlakala, saying Letsoalo’s life could have been saved had her killer not been released. NPA Limpopo spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Dzangi confirmed to BONUS that Letsoalo opened a case of intimidation with the Mankweng police on June 17. Letsoalo is said to have told the police that she met with her boyfriend, who showed her a firearm and told her he would kill her if she chose to end their relationship. In an effort to not be harmed, she promised to stay in the relationship, but went to the police to open a case of intimidation after they went their separate ways on the day. Malabi-Dzhangi says after effecting an arrest, police searched Matlakala’s car for a firearm and found none. She said Matlakala was subsequently released from custody on June 18 with an after-hour bail of R500 and a condition to not go near Letsoalo. On June 19, however, Matlakala is said to have gone to Kgole village in Mankweng to Letsoalo’s family home, where he lured her outside and shot her. He later turned the gun on himself next to his home of Makanye village on the same day. In response to the EFF’s assertion, Dzangi reiterated that the police had found no firearm when searching Matlakala. “The complainant was not assaulted or pointed with a firearm. There was no history of violence between the parties. No protection order was sought. Intimidation is not listed as any schedule office in the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA).” He said they therefore considered the matter as falling under schedule 1 of the act. “The accused had no previous convictions or pending cases and was a considered candidate to be released on bail. The prosecutor could not foresee that the accused would kill the deceased after his release. The issue of the NPA being complicit is unfounded and not supported by facts.” EFF co-ordinator in Limpopo Rebecca Mohlala says they have sought the intervention of the Human Rights Commission and the public protector on this matter and hope both institutions can help agitate for the police and prosecution authority to account. 