Embodying the free-spirited ethos of the 1968 original, the new Mustang California Special is available in South Africa exclusively in Fastback coupe body style paired with a muscular 5.0L V8 engine and 10-speed automatic transmission. Doreen Mashinini, general manager of marketing for Ford South Africa, said, “Exclusive special edition models such as the Bullitt and Mach 1 added further lustre to the Mustang range as our halo Ford Performance product in South Africa, and the California Special will continue in this tradition. “The Mustang California Special is a huge part of the Mustang legacy in America. It symbolises so much of what Mustang stands for – the joy of driving and the freedom of the open road. Those ideals resonate just as strongly with driving enthusiasts and Mustang fans in South Africa,” Mashinini said. “We are delighted to give our customers the opportunity to experience the unique California Special blend of style, performance and driving fun.”  Classic design reinvented When the now iconic Ford Mustang first hit the streets in 1964, owners’ clubs sprang up across America, with many regional dealers creating their own personalised designs. One – inspired by the 1967 Shelby GT notchback coupe prototype – came to be called the California Special. That original version featured a blacked-out grille, fog lights and side racing stripes that ended ahead of the rear side air scoops, as well as a Shelby-inspired spoiler. Impressed, Ford put a limited number of California Special cars into production for 1968. The newest interpretation reflects the original with a honeycomb front grille finished in Ebony Black and featuring a GT/CS badge in Race Red, as well as lower side stripes finished in black, red and grey. Incorporating GT/CS logos, the stripes run from the front to the rear wings and feature a hidden “California Special” script that is almost invisible in low light conditions, but becomes much more prominent in stronger sunlight. Like the original, aerodynamic enhancements hint at V8 performance, including a larger front splitter, a rear wing from the GT Performance Package, and the introduction of side air scoops behind the doors for the first time on the Mustang range in SA – all of which give the car a more muscular stance. At the rear, a California Special faux filler cap sits above quad 4.5-inch tailpipes linked to the Active Valve performance exhaust. Unique five-spoke alloy wheels add to the exclusivity. Front 19×9-inch and rear 19×9.5-inch wheels are finished in Carbonised Grey to complement the front splitter, side skirts and rear diffuser.  Ford’s Sync3 communication and entertainment system is designed to always be ready for a spur-of-the-moment road trip, enabling drivers to control their connected smartphones, audio, navigation, and climate control functions with conversational voice commands and a central eight-inch touchscreen. The system is compatible with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Standard driver assistance technologies, including Adaptive Cruise Control with Pre-Collision Assist and Lane Keeping Alert, help make every day driving less demanding. Good vibrations The Mustang California Special’s 5.0-litre V8 engine – delivering 330kW and 529Nm of torque – provides the performance and soundtrack befitting the Mustang badge. As one of the few remaining naturally aspirated V8 engines on the market, it provides a thoroughly engaging driving experience. Combined with Ford’s advanced 10-speed automatic transmission, the Mustang California Special is capable of accelerating from standstill to 100km/h in just 4.5s. The automatic transmission also optimises performance depending on the selected drive mode. Normal, Sport, Track, Drag and Snow/Wet modes deliver the appropriate driving experience, whether on Route 62 or the N2. Good Neighbour mode limits the exhaust’s noise output to avoid disrupting the neighbourhood.  Traction and cornering grip are maximised by a standard limited-slip differential and MagneRide Damping System. The system monitors driving conditions 1 000 times per second and uses an electronically controlled fluid to match damping resistance to the driving scenario. Confident braking performance is provided by large-diameter 380x34mm ventilated discs and six piston-fixed aluminium Brembo callipers in front, along with 330x25mm discs and floating Brembo callipers at the rear. World’s best-selling sports coupe It was the world’s best-selling sports coupe for the seventh consecutive year in 2021, selling across 146 countries as Ford continues to grow its iconic brand globally. In South Africa, the Mustang remains in a class of its own, achieving 87% share of the sports car segment in 2021. As at the end of May 2022, a total of 3 652 Mustangs have found happy homes among enthusiast owners since the model was first launched in South Africa in 2015.  Pricing The Mustang California Special is priced at R1 154 900 (incl. VAT). Included as standard is Ford Protect comprising a four-year/120 000km warranty, four-year/unlimited distance Roadside Assistance and five-year/unlimited distance corrosion warranty. The recommended service interval is 15 000km or annually, whichever occurs first. Customers have the option of purchasing service or maintenance plans up to eight years or 150 000km. Source: QuickPic