And said Brendon Carpenter, brand marketing manager of Suzuki South Africa: “We have also realised that the current economic climate places a lot of pressure on the types of families and businesses that would buy an Ertiga. We decided to simplify the range and upgrade the specifications of the remaining models.” At the heart of the model changes is a decision to discontinue the luxury Ertiga GLX range (in both automatic and manual models). This means that three models remain, the Ertiga GA five-speed manual, and the Ertiga GL with the choice of five-speed manual or four-speed automatic transmission. As before, all Ertiga models are fitted with Suzuki’s frugal 1.5 litre petrol engine that delivers 77kW and 138Nm of torque. The long wheelbase of 2 740mm and seven-seat configuration also remain unchanged, as does Suzuki’s total effective control technology underpinnings that create an extremely rigid, but lightweight body structure.  GA the budget leader The Ertiga GA remains the entry into Suzuki’s seven-seater range and now receives electronic stability programme and rear parking sensors as standard. Keep in mind that the entire range has two airbags for the front occupants, ABS brakes with emergency brakeforce distribution and brake assistance and Isofic certified anchor points for child seats as standard.
Also standard on the Ertiga GA model, and across the range, are electric windows, power steering, air conditioning with front ventilated cup holders, central locking, halogen projector headlamps with LED combination taillamps and a 12V charging socket in the front centre console. GL – the new luxury champion With the rationalisation of the GLX range, the GL models in both manual and automatic receive many of the styling features and interior luxuries of this range. Styling additions to the GL range include brand-new 15” alloy wheels, and chrome detailing on the front grille, while the body-coloured mirrors and door handles were retained. The mirrors are electrically adjustable and foldable.
Inside the Ertiga GL, the specification level climbs significantly. Gone is the standard radio and in its stead, you will find a new full-colour 7” touch screen infotainment system with integration for Apple and Android phones. The new infotainment system has also allowed Suzuki to add a reverse camera and a multi-functional steering wheel with Bluetooth controls for hands-free dialling. Suzuki has even added cruise control to this specification level, with control buttons easily at hand on the steering wheel. The Ertiga GL range has a significant bump in luxury specifications over the GA model. Additions include a centre armrest and storage box between the front seats, which in turn adds additional air conditioning vents for the rear seats. This model steps up the central locking system to be remotely controlled, adds a 50:50 split rearmost bench, adds an auto function to the driver’s electric window controls and squeezes in an additional 12V charging socket for the rear passengers.  Finally, Suzuki has added hill hold control on the four-speed automatic Suzuki Ertiga GL model. This model now becomes the flagship in the range, and it completes the three-model line-up. As before, all three Ertiga models are sold with Suzuki’s promotional 200 000km/five-year mechanical warranty and a four-year/60 000km service plan. Source: MotorPress