Sachin Arolkar, head of international operations, Automotive Division, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd, said, “We are happy to have simultaneously unveiled the all-new Scorpio-N in South Africa and Nepal. The Scorpio-N is planned in South Africa in the coming months, and it will proudly carry the new Twin Peaks logo. The new brand identity is in tune with Mahindra’s focus to be the makers of sophisticated and authentic SUVs. It heralds a strategic shift across our SUV portfolio, where we are putting the building blocks in place for a new world with a range of authentic SUVs.” “Our decision to include South Africa in the global reveal of the Scorpio-N is a clear sign of our commitment to the country as our second home outside India. Mahindra South Africa is regularly on the list of fastest-growing SUV and bakkie brands in the country. We look forward to introducing our next-generation models here and welcome more South Africans to the Mahindra family,” said Rajesh Gupta, CEO of Mahindra South Africa.  Following its local reveal, the Scorpio-N will embark on a comprehensive local testing programme before going on showroom floors in 2023. Bigger, bolder, more powerful, sophisticated and laden with safety and technology, the Scorpio-N nomenclature was carefully chosen to represent the fact that it raises the game to the power of N. Thrilling performance The Scorpio-N boasts of class-leading structural rigidity, off-road capability and exemplary on-road manners. The Scorpio-N is powered by a TGDi mStallion (petrol) engine with 149.14kW and 380Nm, and the mHawk (diesel) engine with 128.6kW and 400Nm offered in both six-speed manual and automatic transmissions and 4X4 as option.  Unmissable presence The Scorpio-N takes forward the machismo factor to a whole new level. The signature wheel arches have been made even more muscular, taking inspiration from the sinewy silhouette of a swimmer. A metallic Scorpio tail element is seamlessly integrated into the beltline, swinging all the way to the top of the window, giving the Scorpio-N more of a sting. The commanding nature of design effortlessly translates into the front as well.  Premium crafted interiors The All-New Scorpio-N is absolutely captivating on the inside, as on the outside. It greets passengers with top-notch craftmanship – rich coffee-black leatherette upholstery, best-in-class command seating position, centre console encased in robust metal finished dual rails, advanced infotainment system and more, taking the premium-ness to the next level. The interior of the Scorpio-N is designed and fettled to offer a highly sophisticated sensation, delighting the driver and passengers alike. Sophisticated ride and handling It uses the most sophisticated technologies available to offer benchmark driving dynamics. The latest generation body-on-frame structure has been optimised to offer remarkable levels of dynamic competencies and assured handling capabilities. Additionally, the penta-link rear suspension features the segment-first watts link mechanism to offer a confident ride and handling attributes. The steering setup is remarkably smooth and responsive for a vehicle in its category, and all four disc brakes ensure an exhilarating yet safe drive. Go-anywhere capability The all-new Scorpio-N is designed to rule all terrains with the 4XPLOR, first-in-class intelligent terrain management technology. With a mere touch, the electric shift-on-the-fly 4WD system transforms the Scorpio-N from 2WD mode into an all-conquering, capable 4WD beast. It also gets three drive modes to match the driver’s mood: Zip, Zap and Zoom. Zip for smooth riding, especially through traffic, Zap for true Mahindra SUV performance and Zoom to amp it up for a more engaging and exhilarating ride quality. Clean conscience The all-new Scorpio-N has the lowest CO2 emission in its segment. This has been achieved through competent engineering and product development right from the outset. M&M has consciously adopted several environmentally friendly manufacturing processes under Mahindra’s goal of moving towards carbon neutrality. Source: QuickPic