Orders can be submitted – exclusively – via the My Volvo website and pricing is set to start at R1 075 000. Cars are scheduled to arrive in South Africa later in the year. Greg Maruszewski, managing director at Volvo Car South Africa, says it was important for the Swedish firm to provide those local consumers looking to make the switch away from combustion engines with a viable alternative to the local market’s assortment of far higher-priced electric vehicles. “The appetite for electric cars in South Africa is steadily growing, as proven by the popularity of our first battery-powered offering, the twin-motor XC40 P8 Recharge AWD. As with that model, we worked hard to bring in this P6 variant at an attractive price point,” said Maruszewski.  The competitive pricing doesn’t come at the cost of range, with the XC40 P6 Recharge rated to travel up to 423km* on a single charge thanks to its low-mounted, high-voltage 69kWh lithium-ion battery pack. Fitted with a powerful 11kW onboard charger as standard, this model also benefits from very competitive charging capabilities. With a permanently sealed and maintenance-free electric motor mounted on the front axle (and thus driving the front wheels), the XC40 P6 Recharge boasts maximum outputs of 170kW and 330Nm, which facilitate a spirited 0-100 km/h sprint time of just 7.4 seconds. Its braked towing capacity of 1 500kg, meanwhile, matches that of its more powerful twin-motor sibling. As is always the case with Volvo, the newcomer is generously specified, with only a panoramic sunroof and heated seats/steering wheel as optional as everything else is standard.  The list of standard features includes items such as wireless smartphone charging, parking sensors (front and rear), a reversing camera and the company’s latest Android-powered touchscreen infotainment system, complete with built-in Google apps and services. Customers may also choose to upgrade to 20-inch wheels, from the original 19-inch wheels. Volvo’s signature suite of safety features as well as the Pilot Assist driver support system are also included in the purchase price, along with the Volvo CARE package, which here comprises a five-year maintenance plan and warranty, three years of comprehensive insurance, use of a petrol car for two weeks per year for three years, a public charge cable and a wall box home charger.  The announcement of local pricing for the XC40 P6 Recharge moves the Gothenburg-based company another step towards its global ambition of transforming into a fully electric car company by 2030. *Range is according to WLTP driving cycles and real-world range may vary. Figures are based on preliminary target. Final vehicle certification pending. Source: MotorPress