Not all birds migrate north for summer in Europe. There are many that remain, including the brightly coloured  sunbirds, weavers, doves, thrushes, barbets,  the petite Cape White-eye and Cape Sparrow, as well as the African Hoopoe, Glossy Starling, Dark-capped Bulbul, Speckled Mousebird, and Grey Go-away-bird. The good news is that these are mostly common garden inhabitants and by putting out a feast of seed, suet, fruit and nectar it is possible to record a dozen or more different bird species after just a few hours of birdwatching, says Mark Anderson, CEO of Birdlife South Africa.  We’re for birds
Setting up feeders is also our way of giving back to nature, especially in winter, says Marlaen Straathof, from Kirchhoffs Wild Wings, a bird care product range that is supplied through garden centres and hardware outlets. You will need: a variety of feeders for different birds, bird food, and suitable places for hanging the feeders. Placing is very important. Birds need to feel safe and at the same time, the feeders should be visible for bird watching and accessible for topping up the food and cleaning. Feeders: Wooden seed and fruit  feeders should have a flat bottom with a roof or overhang  to keep seed dry. A narrow perch will keep pigeons away, as they tend to chase smaller birds. Knock a nail or two  through the base of the feeder to act as spikes on which to push the fruit. Open feeders can be messy but the Wild Wings Patio Feeder has a glass front that acts as a ‘seed tank’, letting a limited amount of seed through at the base. Wild Wings Suet feeders range from functional Wild Wings wire holders to decorative terracotta bowls that double as garden décor. Choose a suet feeder that allows the birds to perch and feed but can only peck off small pieces of suet at a time. Birds likely to be attracted to the suet include White-eyes, thrushes, Boubous, Cape Robin Chat, Crested Barbets and Bulbuls Wild Wings Nectar bottles fill the gap in winter when there is little in flower. It takes the form of a bottle that can be hung from a branch or a beam and is angled to ensure a constant supply of nectar. It is a good idea to have two nectar feeders, but to fill one with water as this is often in short supply as well. Good to know: Keep feeders clean by washing them once a week with soap and water or a weak solution of bleach. Remove rotting seed and bird droppings, as this can spread disease. Recommended Bird Food: Placing feeders The location of feeders should meet the needs of birds as well as your need to see them. Birds will use feeders that feel safe, are easy to see and are convenient for them and at the same time, you should be able to see them easily, from the patio or through a window. Safe: Feeders should be out of reach of cats and dogs, and should be close to shelter (trees, shrubs) for a fast retreat. A feeder can be very close to a window so that the birds don’t hit the window or some distance away (about 12m)  so that they can avoid  the window. Birds may also feel safer in a quiet place away from a play area, garage or walkway. Visible: The easier a feeder is for birds to see, the more likely it will attract them. A good option is an open, sunny area which also allows them to keep a watch for predators. Convenient: Birds gravitate to where their natural food source is, so place the feeder as close as possible to their normal hangouts For instance, nectar feeders near aloes and other winter flowers, and suet feeders near trees or on strong branches to attract barbets. Also consider that birds will shy away from overcrowded feeders. Rather spread the feeders throughout the garden, so that there is space for everyone. http://www.kirchhoffs.co.za/2022/03/07/were-for-the-birds/