POLOKWANE – With continued reports of cases of gender-based violence in Limpopo, and recent scares of possible taxi violence over routes between some association operating in the city, a collaborative effort by the South African National Taxi Council (Santaco), South African Council of Churches (SACC) and provincial government saw a convergence of all stakeholders in Seshego in a prayer session against gender-based violence and taxi violence on June 26. The day’s proceedings started with a peaceful march from the Seshego traffic circle with all stakeholders holding placards bearing messages of calls for the prevalence of peace and harmony. In the opening address, the deputy chairperson of Santaco in Limpopo, Robert Mthombini, told the gathered stakeholders that they drew lessons from the first democratically elected president, Nelson Mandela who conveyed varied organisations for the common cause of peace and unity. Mthombini said they equally saw it fit to converge all stakeholders and urge all to pray for the common goal of curbing crime in society towards the key populations of women, and between taxi associations. Those gathered took the time to observe a moment of silence and candle lighting for slain taxi boss Solomon Ledwaba, who was killed execution-style in what has widely been speculated to be a taxi violence-linked murder in February. Former Transport MEC Mavhungu Luruli-Ramakhanya who represented the premier, Chupu Mathabatha, said the prayer session is an important platform available to all citizens. “We need to ask ourselves what out individual roles are in eliminating taxi violence. It is only when answers to this question is established that solutions to the scourge will be found.” Santaco Limpopo chairperson Lesiba Ngoepe said taxi drivers are also a part of the communities. “We urge them to act as if they are a part of a coherent society and not a parallel structure that resorts to violence to resolve challenges.” On behalf of the SACC, Rev Awedzani Nemaukwe urged that prayer shows results of positivity as a sign or being heard by God, “I believe things will be better after this mass prayer”. 