What do you and your children typically do on Sunday afternoons? Are Sundays usually chaotic? Do you have to spend loads at shopping malls just to keep your children entertained for an hour or two? Or are Sundays devoted to relaxing and spending quality time together as a family? Here are six ways to make the most of a Sunday afternoon. The weekend is the perfect time to snuggle up with your child and read together. Reading is not just a fun activity; studies have shown that it also has several health advantages, such as enhancing brain function and lowering stress levels, making it the ideal way to unwind before the start of the busy week. Not in the mood for the gym or rigorous workout at home? We don’t blame you; most people indulge on Sundays, right? However, this should not exclude you and your family from engaging in some form of physical exercise to improve your mood and fitness level. Why not take a walk to the local park, go cycling around the block, or have fun together doing yoga, pilates, or a low-impact workout DVD. There is a reason why people enjoy gardening so much: you get to spend time in the sun while breathing in fresh air; it gets your blood pumping, relieves stress, and improves your mood; and you get to enjoy the fruits (and flowers and vegetables) of your labour and create a beautiful outdoor space that you can enjoy year-round. In other words, gardening is calming, satisfying, and useful, making it a wonderful pastime for Sunday afternoons, particularly for children who prefer spending time in nature. Why waste time and money by going to the movie theatre when you can enjoy a movie marathon at home? Make some popcorn, grab some blankets, and watch family-friendly movies together. Who doesn’t appreciate the simple pleasure of creating their own bread, cakes, cookies, and other treats? Baking is a terrific Sunday afternoon pastime for children for many reasons: it’s enjoyable, family-friendly, soothing, fills the house with a delicious aroma, and allows you to stock up on snacks for the week. Your child will enjoy helping mom or dad with rolling, mixing, and stirring the ingredients. Gather the troops and spend the day playing board games if you want to spend quality time with your family and truly connect with them, as opposed to simply watching television with them. Our family’s childhood favourites were Scattergories and Monopoly; what were yours? 