The SUV-inspired Renault Triber Express is expressly robust and attractive in design. It boasts striking projector headlights, stylish longitudinal roof rails (with a load capacity of up to 50kg) and LED daylight running lights, while the three-part ultramodern triple-edge chrome front grille and stylish flex wheels add to its presence on the road. A ground clearance of 182mm and SUV skid plates lend an impressive stance while offering protection on rough terrain. Convenience and driving comfort is the order of the day The driver’s seat offers six-way adjustable capabilities to facilitate greater driving comfort and convenience, with front power windows and Rear Park Distance Control, which enables ease of parking.  Cargo load area The new Renault Triber Express panel van is synonymous with class-leading loading space. It has been specifically modified for maximum convenience within the light commercial market. It offers a load capacity of 1 500L and a payload of 542kg, with extremely easy load access points from the rear doors and boot. The rear loading bay is equipped with steel mesh for durability and enhanced safety. Modern and well-equipped beyond expectations Beyond the aesthetics, the new Triber Express has a multitude of innovative features, such as a gear shift indicator on the digital tachometer that assists with driving at an optimum speed for better fuel efficiency, The easy-to-use infotainment system comes integrated with R&Go radio, Bluetooth, USB and AUX ports.  Optimised engine efficiency The Triber Express offers the perfect balance of performance and fuel economy, thanks to its lightweight structure and chassis. Its new-generation five-speed manual, 1.0 litre three-cylinder petrol Energy Engine generates 52kW with 96Nm torque. Further equipped with modern technology like the dual VVT system that delivers maximum response at all revs, it ensures optimum acceleration. This, along with good fuel efficiency from only 5.5L/100km and low maintenance cost, makes the engine ideal for South Africa.  Safety and security first Safety is a key selling point for Triber Express. As such, it is equipped with ABS and EBD, and high passive safety levels with equipment such as remote central locking, speed-sensing door locking, emergency lock retractor, three-point front seat belts with retractors, a Pyrotechnic pretensioner driver seat belt, load limiter driver and passenger seat belts, seat belt reminder (driver and front passenger), dual airbags (driver and passenger) and reinforced body structure. Peace of mind comes standard To facilitate peace-of-mind driving, the entire Renault Triber Express model comes standard with a two-year/30 000km service plan, plus a five-year/150 000km mechanical warranty and a six-year anti-corrosion warranty. Services take place at 15 000km intervals. Pricing: R219 900 Source: QuickPic