It will be available on YouTube in five monthly instalments (with two bonus appendixes), with each episode focusing on a different topic. The series will showcase the passion, expertise and dedication of the team as the storylines of the 2022 Formula One season unfold. The world of Formula One encompasses the most advanced technical platform, in which the smallest margins of performance make the difference between victory and defeat. This is the work of hundreds of individuals – engineers, designers, managers, drivers – who tirelessly pour their energies into the pursuit of perfection. Only a tiny part of this effort is in the public eye, however: this is where Beyond the Visible steps in, to give the public access to the inner workings of a team, away from the limelight and the deafening sound of engines. Fans will be taken behind the scenes, both at race weekends and at the team’s headquarters in Hinwil, Switzerland. They will be able to witness the decision-making process, grapple with the complexities of logistics and experience the daily lives of drivers and other personnel. The series will adopt a highly cinematic style to give fans a unique insight in the team: from drivers’ nutrition to mechanics’ training, from car design to a hectic weekend at the Italian Grand Prix in Monza, no topic is left in the dark in the quest to unveil the true soul of Alfa Romeo F1 Team ORLEN. Frédéric Vasseur, team principal of Alfa Romeo F1 Team ORLEN, “One of the key tenets of Alfa Romeo F1 Team ORLEN is to bring our fans closer, and our new Beyond the Visible series is designed to give them the widest possible access. It is a series designed to shine the light on topics that are not often entertained, either by veteran fans of the sports or the growing number of followers who are just discovering our sport. Even more, Beyond the Visible is a visually stunning approach to the world of Formula One. We cannot wait to showcase it to the world”. Watch the trailer LINK Source: QuickPic