POLOKWANE – The road as a spokesperson for the Department of Transport and Community (formerly Roads and Transport) is not always a long one. Despite numerous developments such as the department’s name change as well as changes to MECs, Matome Moremi-Taueatsoala has withstood the test of time. Until the reconfiguration of the executive committee, Moremi-Taueatsoala served as the departmental spokesperson for the past eight years. He has been involved in the communication sphere for many years. Moremi-Taueatsoala worked as a parliamentary liaison and constituency manager from 2010 until 2014, where after he worked as a government communicator. “I joined the then Roads and Transport Department as deputy director of public relations and worked in this position until 2017.” Makoma Makhurupetje was appointed MEC and subsequently appointed Moremi-Taueatsoala as acting head of communications. “I became the spokesperson of the department as a result, an  opportunity for which I will forever be grateful. Other MECs were appointed in Dr Dickson Masemola and Mavhungu Leruli-Ramakhanya, and they too afforded me the opportunity to continue in the same position,” he explained. Moremi-Taueatsoala recalls joining the department at the time public protector Thuli Madonsela released the “On the point of tender” report. The report shone the spotlight on the department and its suspected tender irregularities. “We were constantly in the limelight and I was nervous. However, I was welcomed by a hard-working team.” When asked if he was trained in transportation matters when he joined, he answered: “I had no training and it was just a matter of on-the-job training and preparing for an interview that I was requested to do.” He said one of his proudest achievements from his time at the department is the establishment of the departmental TV channel with the help of colleague Mike Maringa. “The campaigns the department led against gender-based violence and femicide will equally remain close to my heart.” Moremi-Taueatsoala is excited by the challenge that lies ahead at the Education Department as the departmental spokesperson. 