LIMPOPO – The MEC for Economic Development Environment and Tourism, Thabo Mokone, successfully unveiled the long-anticipated Musina-Makhado (MMSEZ) project which is earmarked to attract foreign direct investment and create more than 20 000 jobs in Musina. The unveiling, which was also attended by the Deputy Minister of the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition, Fikile Majola, is expected to boost economic development and facilitate job creation by way of industrial investment. You might also want to read: Musina-Makhado SEZ to attract social infrastructure investments Addressing more than 1 000 stakeholders, Mokone said government’s objective was to develop both Musina and Makhado municipalities in an integrated manner through rail and road expansion that will benefit both the region and some African countries. Mokone said government was proud to announce that the MMSEZ project is officially off the ground and soon the people of Musina/Makhado will see dust being raised as site preparations begin. “We have come a long way with this project, and we have been promising our people that industrial development will bring a boost in economic activity and job creation. This is a time to celebrate our hard-earned efforts of bringing real change in this area.” The MEC said that there is no doubt, that if effectively implemented through well-coordinated stakeholder mobilisation, the MMSEZ project will have major macroeconomic benefits for both the region and Limpopo. “This project will generate an income, create jobs, grow the tax base and be a net generator of foreign exchange earnings,” said Mokone. It is estimated that overall direct and indirect employment creation will be around 26 000 over a period exceeding a decade. “We are determined to turn these forecasts into reality,” Mokone emphasised. The MEC added that special economic zones do not function as isolated enclaves, as their success is dependent on the backward and forward linkages that they create and foster with companies operating outside of these zones. Mokone also emphasised that education and skills development will be central to the success of the project. Majola indicated that his department was impressed with the development of the MMSEZ thus far and encouraged the province to work even harder to capitalise on this success going forward. He acknowledged that he had found a friend overnight in Dr Mofasi Lekota, the Chairperson of the MMSEZ Board, who promised that soon there would be dust in the area. “I have found a new friend who is young within and talks the language of delivery.” Majola encouraged the people of Musina and surrounding areas to brace themselves for a period of inconvenience that would change their town into an apiary of activity as construction of the bulk of infrastructure in the economic zone gains momentum. “When I come back here the next time, I want to see real change. I want to launch industrial development in action. Promises are now something of the past,” said Majola. He added that Musina will never be the same again. “This project is going to change the town forever”. The deputy minister said this was a huge step in the right direction for the practical implementation of the SEZ programme. The deputy minister went on to say, “As a department, we are delighted with this kind of progress, and are committed to ensuring that the MMSEZ creates the much needed jobs for the people of Musina, grows the town’s economy and promotes industrialisation and the manufacturing of goods for domestic consumption and exports in line with the objectives of the SEZ programme.” Leda Group CEO, Thakhani Makhuvha, who was present during the unveiling, welcomed the new developments and urged the people of Musina and Makhado to join hands and embrace the SEZ for their own benefit. He said the project has now completely taken off the ground and the people could now celebrate with pride. 