With winter upon us and the weather reminding us that it’s time to cover up, global leader in innovative casual footwear, Crocs, Inc. (NASDAQ: CROX), is ensuring that you’re fully covered this season with their cosy collection of Classic Lined Clogs and Classic Neo Puff Boots along that can be personalised with customised Jibbitz Charms™ – perfect for indoors or out! The Classic Clog that started a comfort revolution around the world is a do-it-all style that you’re sure to fall deeper in love with day after day. Boot up in a new lined version featuring a lined nylon funnel neck so you get the best of both worlds — Classic with a boot look that is easy to clean and quick to dry. Lifelong wardrobe staples beloved by millions of all ages, Crocs Classic Clogs offer lightweight comfort, a colour for every personality, and an ongoing invitation to be comfortable in your own shoes. Everybody loves the comfort of the legendary Crocs Classic Clog and with the toasted lined version, now that feeling can be kept all year around. Great as a slipper, yet capable of keeping you toasty on those cold morning errands too! From classic white, black and grey to a pop of colour with lavender, pink and tie-dye prints, grab the Classic Lined Clog for only R 799.95 in-store or online. Looking to step up your winter look, cop the Classic Neo Puff Boot for only R 1 299.95 at a store near you or online. Come rain or shine, these confidently comfortable styles are easy to pull on when you need to walk the dog and stylish enough for a coffee with friends and family! Fashion is multi-faceted and what better way to celebrate the brand ethos of ‘Come As You Are’, which represents diversity, than to offer individuals a shoe that not only brings comfort but allows them to stand up and stand out amongst the crowd by customising with Jibbitz Charms™ to make it their own! Crocs will continue to push the envelope and will be dropping bolder graphics, bolder prints, and bolder styles in the coming months! To be the first to know about new styles and gain exclusive access, head to www.crocssa.co.za and sign up for the Crocs SA newsletter today or follow their journey on social media via Instagram | @crocsza ; Facebook | @CrocsSouthAfrica.