Start with a hostage thriller that centres on a psychiatric prison where a group of armed men aim to capture an incarcerated serial killer but are met with resistance from the prison director. Then watch a high-octane series focusing on Counter Terrorism policing and the Bomb Disposal Squad also known as expo officers. Or explore the three parallel lives of a man after he makes a pivotal choice at a crossroads in his life. The Longest Night is the night of December 24th – a group of armed men surround the Monte Baruca prison and cut off communications with the outside. Their objective, capture Simón Lago, a dangerous serial killer. If the guards hand him over, the assault will be over in a matter of minutes. But Hugo, the prison warden, refuses to obey and prepares to resist the attack. Watch it on Netflix.  Vicky McClure will play front-line officer Lana Washington, who is an experienced bomb disposal operative. Reckless and out of control, Lana is ex-military and pushed to breaking point dealing with a series of improvised explosive devices which threaten the capital during a terrorist summer campaign. Under extreme pressure and searching for answers, Lana can’t help but become suspicious that the bomber is premeditatedly targeting her unit. It’s a terrifying thought, but against all odds how does she prove it and discover the bomber’s true identity? Watch Trigger Point from July 14 on BritBox.  Life is all about the choices you make – and sometimes, what you do in a single moment can change everything. Joe Kimbreau faces one of these decisions at his college graduation, leading to three parallel stories that diverge from that night. Each path finds Joe with a different career – as a nurse, a police officer or a rock star – along with different friendships, relationships and family lives, showing the unexpected ways things change – and stay the same. But when it comes down to it, there is no “right” choice; no matter what happens, Joe’s life is always messy, exciting, tough, unpredictable – and beautiful. Watch Ordinary Joe season 1 on Showmax. 