“The reason for our continued growth in South Africa is the fact that we cater to virtually every need,” explains Yongjun Li, CEO of FAW Trucks SA. “Our line-up includes freight carriers, truck tractors, tippers and mixers, all assembled to exacting standards to be able to withstand the harsh conditions of the African continent. The newly designed and engineered JH6 33.420FT has a high-roof forward tilt cab with seating for the driver and a passenger. It includes a double sleeper cab with air conditioning, a radio with USB and an air suspension seat for the driver, with multi-dimensional adjustment ability. This completely new cab design has a wind resistance factor of 0,54. The new and improved look of the interior layout includes a multi-function steering wheel and enhanced dashboard features for better driver control along with central locking and power windows.  The 11 040cc, Euro 2 specification, six-cylinder, inline engine is water-cooled, turbo-charged and has an intercooler, producing 312kW@1 900r/min and 1 900Nm@1 200 r/min. The Bosch brand manual injection pump is specifically made for African application, while the gear shifting booster makes driving feel like a car, removing much of the stress, especially on long-haul journeys – as does the Superior Engine brake of 190kW. American brand Con-Met wheel hubs are fitted, allowing 500 000km of maintenance free driving. The 12-speed manual syncromesh gearbox is matched to a set of ratios specifically designed to provide optimum performance and fuel efficiency, irrespective of whether it is operating in rural areas or on the open road. It features a forged steel I-Section beam front axle coupled to a full floating single reduction rear axle with inter-axle, inter-wheel and differential locks. Semi-elliptical leaf springs with double-acting shock absorbers comprise the front suspension, while the rear has semi-elliptical leaf springs with auxiliary springs. Stopping power comes from the dual circuit, full air brakes with ABS. “All the products we introduce locally are carefully considered with Africa roads and driving in mind,” explains Li. “At FAW Trucks customer service is, and always will be key. We go the extra mile to look after our customers and to make sure that we offer them the best deals possible,” explains Paul Lastrucci, national aftersales manager.  “When our trucks leave the showroom floor after a sale, clients can expect long-term, dedicated services and 24/7 support, ensuring their investment gives them the returns expected of modern trucks. “All models in the current range of FAW Trucks sold in South Africa represent the strength, reliability, affordability and ease of operation that the brand and its products are renowned for. Most importantly, though, the JH6 33.420FT delivers on the promise of a ‘truck built in South Africa for Africa’,” concludes Li. Source: QuickPic