Live greener with these earth-friendly tips and products. We all have good intentions to be better humans and adopt greener habits in and around the home to do our bit to protect the environment, but knowing where and how to start without any drastic lifestyle changes can be a challenge. As with anything, the key to success is taking baby steps and implementing a few small, yet key steps that will point you in the right direction. Here are three steps to get you started:- It might sound like a mission, but millions of people all over the world have mastered it, and so can you. The secret to success is setting up a proper recycling station. Get a couple of bins and label them accordingly: glass, paper, plastic etc. Next, get into the habit of checking the back of plastic packaging for the recycling symbol (three arrows pointing in a triangular shape) to check if you can add it to your recyclables.  2. Choose cruelty-free products Check product packaging (from cosmetics to household products) for a cruelty-free stamp, Beauty Without Cruelty endorsement or PETA-approved logo. This shows that the product was not tested on animals and is therefore a cruelty-free product. Look out for cruelty-free make-up products such as the Wet n Wild range. When it comes to haircare, try Hask, which is free from all those nasties including sulphates, parabens, phthalates and gluten. Love your skin and the environment by opting for a skincare range that is not only cruelty-free but vegan too such as NIP+FAB. 3. Stay away from single use plastic It takes about 1000 years for plastic to decompose, and every year the world produces around 380 million metric tons of plastic. While many plastics nowadays are designed to last and various types of plastics are recyclable, single use plastics don’t tick either of these boxes and simply get thrown away after just one use. To limit your use, opt for a refillable water bottle and fill it at a tap instead of buying bottled water and take your own shopping bags for your groceries, avoid straws and balloons and go for glass alternatives where possible.