Autumn is an excellent time to plant any of the more than 360 species of the protea (Proteaceae) family, which are widely available in nurseries around South Africa as well as online. The best known specimens are proteas, pincushions (leucospermum), cone bushes (leucadendrons), blushing brides (serruria) and mimetes. Proteas generally grow well in nutrient-poor soils, and excellent drainage is a must to prevent fungal disease. Other than that, they are hardy but do not like to have their roots disturbed, so be sure to select the perfect spot before planting. Most proteas can withstand temperatures of -4°C, and some varieties even do well at -9°C. This means they can be grown in most parts of the country, even those that experience severe frost. Mulching proteas – in fact, all plants – reduces weed growth and insulate the soil. In addition, it regulates soil temperature – keeping it cool in summer and warm in winter. This also helps the soil to retain moisture, so you will need to water less often. Mulch adds small amounts of nutrients and organic material to the soil as it breaks down. Ideal mulches for proteas include wood chips, well-aged pine bark, pine needles, gravel and newspaper. Because proteas naturally occur in areas with nutrient-poor soil, they generally don’t need much feeding. However, they are particularly sensitive to excess nitrogen and phosphorus levels, so fertilisers high in phosphates should be avoided. When planting proteas, don’t add compost, bone meal or super phosphate to the soil. The best way to keep them happy is to leave any material removed during pruning on the ground next to the plant. Then, as it decomposes, small amounts of nutrients will provide enough food for the protea to thrive. Pruning proteas helps to improve the quality and quantity of flowers. It also helps to reduce disease, extends the plant’s life, and creates more luxuriant, compact bushes. These rewarding, low maintenance, waterwise plants deserve a place in every garden – no matter how small.