LIMPOPO – Global beauty company Avon Justine hosted a stakeholder luncheon to bid tennis sensation Kgothatso KG Montjane farewell ahead of her departure for Wimbledon in London. Montjane, who was born in Limpopo, is Africa’s number one ranked wheelchair tennis player and the fourth seeded female wheelchair player in the world. She is on her way to Wimbledon after a gruelling performance at the French Open, where she battled a shoulder injury, with Avon Justine as her exclusive beauty sponsor. You might also want to read: Polokwane’s KG misses out on Wimbledon title As part of the partnership, Montjane will give Avon Justine branding exposure with various items such as designer clothing, and she will receive a monthly Avon beauty hamper and an incentive performance bonus. Montjane said she made remarkable progress thanks to the resources she now has at her disposal. “Many tennis players peak at the age of 19, but that was how old I was when I picked up a tennis racket for the first time. I believe I still have time to clinch the greatest accolade of my career, which is an Olympic gold medal. I only hope my injuries will not cut my journey short,” Montjane added. She explained the Paris Olympics are just around the corner and she intends to compete with a winning mentality for a gold medal. “Paris is a big opportunity, it might be the last one for me. I look forward to it,” she said. Avon Justine managing director Mafahle Mareletse said the partnership between Avon Justine and Montjane is a marriage of two entities that share the same values and synergies. “At the heart of Avon is the quest to empower women to unlock and reach their full potential. As a brand that prides itself on its empowerment ethos, it is no surprise that we always strive to support the underdog and this is why KG chose us and we chose her. We are proud of our association with Montjane and we remain confident that she will continue to fly South Africa’s flag high and put the country on the map,” said Mareletse. The Wimbledon tournament will continue until July 12. 