Since its introduction in 1992, this performance derivative, has found favour with many spirited enthusiasts owners around the world. The 2022 Subaru WRX seamlessly combines an assertive and exhilarating stance with a refined approach to the fluidity of motion styling concept. It cuts a striking silhouette thanks to Subaru’s Dynamic x Solid design philosophy that boldly fortifies all angles of the car’s exterior. Subaru’s signature bonnet scoop and hexagonal grille takes centre stage at the front of the car, while multifunctional LED, steering responsive headlights further complement the wider and more aggressive stance. The side profile is defined by the sporty side garnishes that emphasise the low centre of gravity with incorporated air outlets at the trailing edges of the front and rear wheels to minimise any trapped air. At the rear, the bumper houses an integrated diffuser that stabilises airflow as it exits from underneath the car. The rear spoiler serves the dual purpose of converting guided airflow into rear-end stability. Wheels for the South African market come in 18-inch sizing wrapped in 245/40 contact rubber.  Exhilarating performance The beating heart of the 2022 Subaru WRX is the new 2.4-litre, four-cylinder turbocharged horizontally-opposed Boxer® petrol engine. It delivers 202kW (+5kW) and 350Nm between 2 000rpm and 5 200rpm. There are two derivatives available in the line-up: the WRX Manual and the WRX tS ES. In the manual derivative, the 2.4-litre Boxer® engine is joined to a six-speed manual gearbox. The WRX tS ES derivative brings with it the newly developed eight-speed Subaru performance transmission that is up to 50% faster than before. Subaru’s WRX tS ES derivative is also fitted as standard with the Si-Drive Performance Management system that allows drivers to tap into the multifaceted driving mode set-up of this premium sports sedan.  Subaru global platform The new Subaru WRX is designed, engineered, and built with safety, performance and luxury as key deliverables. By building the WRX on the Subaru Global Platform, the WRX now represents the highest levels of refinement in Subaru’s history. With an increase of 14% in front lateral rigidity and 28% torsional rigidity, the new Subaru WRX benefits with more impressive agility and control. The chassis and grip levels are further enhanced from an increase in the rigidity of the suspension mounting points and longer suspension stroke to effortlessly absorb wheel movement on uneven road surfaces, a key feature of any WRX.  WRX-pressive interior At the heart of the cabin design is the new 11.6-inch infotainment system that serves as an easy-to-access hub for a wide range of entertainment and vehicle-related functions. The high-resolution, tablet-style screen recreates the operational premise of modern smart devices for intuitive, and safe, system navigation. The system retains physical buttons for operating volume and temperate control to ensure distraction-free driving. The system features Android Auto, Apple CarPlay and Bluetooth in addition to a built-in navigation programme that is standard across the locally available WRX range. All models are available with a 10-speaker Harman Kardon sound system. Also incorporated into the system is individually selectable and customisable drive mode select interface as well as a number of other information features including car settings, vehicle diagnostics and more. Connecting the driver to the WRX is a small-diameter flat-bottomed, leather-wrapped steering wheel with multifunction buttons for instant control of the audio system, voice recognition and the EyeSight Driver-Assist system. The WRX tS ES model is further equipped with aluminium pedals and steering-mounted shifters for maximum driver control and enjoyment. The seats on the all-new WRX have been reworked to offer a balance of comfort and support.  Safety for absolute peace of mind All-round visibility is a key engineering and design choice at Subaru. In the case of the WRX, engineers have optimised the position and thickness of the A-pillar in addition to the positioning of the door side-mirrors have to ensure improved visibility of the road and surroundings. Subaru’s symmetrical all-wheel-drive ensures that the driver is always in control. This is complemented by sensor-based systems within Subaru’s vehicle dynamics control, a suite of safety systems. These include active torque vectoring, ABS, EBD and ESC that ensure optimum traction and handling in all driving conditions. Passive safety inclusions are a new body substructure that uses high-tensile strength steel sheets placed in strategic locations to absorb maximum energy in front, side or rear collisions. Inside the passenger compartment, occupants are protected by eight airbags, including a driver’s-side knee airbag. EyeSight® Driver Assist System: The WRX tS ES derivative comes standard with Subaru’s most advanced EyeSight® 4.0 Driver Assistance System that, in the new WRX, is safer than ever before. Enhancements have been made including an improved field of view from the dual camera set. EyeSight as a technology offers a wealth of driving assistance including a Pre-Collision Braking system, Autonomous Emergency Steering, Lane Departure Prevention, Adaptive Cruise and Steering Control, Traffic Sign Recognition and Intelligent Speed Limiter.  Driver Monitoring System: Subaru’s Driver Monitoring System, available on both models, uses a camera installed above the multimedia system and monitors driver behaviour to further support safe driving. If drivers take their eyes off the road or show signs of drowsiness while driving, the driver monitoring system will issue a warning to drivers. But it’s not just a safety technology. The driver monitoring system can also be set up to with up to five driving presets. The system will use facial recognition to instantly recognise the driver, and then change all the driving presets accordingly. The new Subaru WRX range is the second model in the local Subaru line-up to feature this technology, after the Outback. Pricing starts at R759 000 and includes a three-year/75 000km maintenance plan and a five-year/150 000km warranty. Source: QuickPic