LIMPOPO – The newly appointed MEC of Education, Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya, urged learners of Tshiawelo Secondary School in Vleifontein to take their education seriously. Lerule-Ramakhanya paid a visit to the school last Wednesday to hand out dignity packs, which included school bags, sanitary towels and school shoes to learners in need, as well as to warn the learners not to engage in unbecoming behaviour such as bullying at the school and the abuse of alcohol and drugs. The MEC said government would fight against bullying in schools and put an end to the problem so that learners can concentrate on their education. “We will not tolerate bullying in schools in our province, as it disrupts learning and teaching. If you see a learner bully another learner, it must be reported to the teachers. Don’t talk to another learner in an abusive way, because he or she is a human being like yourself. He or she might be from a poor family, but you should always treat others with dignity. We understand that some learners are from rich families, but it doesn’t make them superior to others.” You might also want to read: Home Run for Education keeps its promise to rural learners Lerule-Ramakhanya said she was worried that learners no longer take their education seriously and involve themselves in unproductive behaviour that only distracted them from their studies. “Education leads to a bright future and you should not rush into things like sex, as the only thing you will get is diseases and unplanned children,” she said. The Vhembe SAPS commissioner, Maj Gen Eddie van der Walt, said drugs has had a devastating effect on learners, who ended up losing focus on their schoolwork and became drop-outs. “Respect your teachers and focus on your education, as it is your only passport to a brighter future. No brain can function if it is saturated with alcohol or drugs,” he said. Van der Walt warned the learners that to sell drugs at schools is a criminal offence. “It does not matter who you are or where you do it; you will be arrested. “We will make no exception, because tomorrow you might hurt or kill someone,” he said. 