The expanding line-up of electrified vehicles of hybrid (HEV) and battery EV (BEV) achieved approximately 80% of sales of electrified vehicles globally, making the Lexus Urban Compact Crossover (UX) the leading model in the Lexus electrified line-up. Currently, the UX is available in South Africa in hybrid only, once again taking another confident step on the path to carbon neutrality by further lowering fuel emissions and providing a realistic entry to electrified motoring. (It is worth noting that Lexus’ New Energy Vehicle (NEV) share has grown from 8% in 2017 to 34% in 2021 – and of that share, UX hybrids account for a 76% average.)  What is new in the UX? Based on the “Always On” philosophy of continuous improvement through agile development, the new (big spec change) UX250h has been further refined and boasts an exhilarating driving performance. Enhancements include its advanced safety systems, which expand the preventive safety technology functions and add the latest multimedia system. For advanced safety system enhancements, Lexus aimed to make driving safer and more reassuring by enhancing the functionality of the Lexus Safety System preventive safety technology. The UX also features a new state-of-the-art multimedia system with a larger/higher-resolution touchscreen display. Usability has been improved by optimising the shapes and switch layout of the instrument panel and console area. Two USB charging connectors (type C) have also been added to the front of the console.  Evolution of the F Sport Driving Experience Performance dampers and AVS will be standard on the F Sport. The rear performance dampers quickly absorb body flex and minor vibrations to further sharpen handling and improve overall ride comfort and quietness. The aim is to achieve sporty driving performance faithful to driver operation. Furthermore, an advanced digital key feature enhances customer usability, enabling door lock/unlock and engine start via smartphone. The vehicle can be operated with just one smartphone, even if there are multiple vehicles compatible with the digital key that you own. Lexus Safety System The performance of the single-lens camera and millimetre-wave radar has been improved to expand the response range of the Pre-Collision System, which is designed to detect daytime cyclists and pedestrians in low-light conditions and, at intersections, to detect oncoming vehicles before right turns and pedestrians crossing the street from the direction toward which the vehicle was travelling before it started to make a right or left turn. Also featured are functions such as Emergency Steering Assist, which assists steering within the vehicle’s lane as cued by the driver.  Improved Cockpit Usability The larger/higher resolution touch display is now mounted closer to the driver, allowing touchscreen operation without compromising driving posture. The seat heater switches previously mounted in the centre of the instrument panel have been placed on top of the console, and two type C USB charging connectors have been newly installed in the space in front of the console created by this change. In addition, the wireless charging space has been vertically extended and LED lighting has been added at the top for improved usability. Source: MotorPress