Philodendrons have been around forever, and are easily taken for granted, because they seem to grow in any and every situation. In other words, the perfect beginner’s plant that is an excellent foliage plant for containers.  Normally, philodendrons wouldn’t be trending as houseplants but these new varieties are worth tracking down. Philodendron ‘Black Cardinal’  This rare variety is prized for the varying colours of its leaves. The new leaves are reddish brown, maturing to a dark olive green and finally black. It  can grow up to 1 m high and 50cm wide under the right conditions. Keep the plant neat by removing old leaves. It is frost tender and should be kept indoors in winter. Philodendron Peru  This plant is already causing confusion. Some call it a monstera because of its botanical name (Monstera karstenianum) but the plant is actually classified as a philodendron and its proper name is Philodendron Karstenianum. Having got that out of the way, what one can say about this unusual variety is that it has thick, rumpled leaves similar to some peperomia and is a slow-growing trailing plant that doesn’t extend more than 2m indoors. Being an epiphyte, it needs less light and water than other philodendron varieties and it its upward growth habit lends it to display on a trellis or moss pole. Philodendron Birkin  Variegated leaves always stand out and that’s true of Philodendron Birkin. The large dark green leaves with white veins appear almost hand-painted and the new leaves sometimes start off as white before unfurling. Also, a rare variety, it can tolerate low light for a short while but is best displayed where there is bright, indirect light, close to a north or east facing window. Philodendron Silver Sword  This is another vining variety with bluish-silver lance like leaves that mature to a deeper green colour and take on an arrowhead form. Because of its trailing habit, consider growing this in a hanging basket to show off the dramatic foliage. With the right conditions it can develop a 1m spread. It can take more water than other philodendrons but still needs plenty of indirect bright light. It doesn’t mind being trimmed to retain its shape. Philodendron Shangri-la  This one you will recognise, but the beauty of this variety is its very compact nature, with smaller lobed leaves and a dense, bushy shape. The lush, glossy green leaves make it an attractive home-office, house, and patio plant. Unlike its big daddy, It doesn’t vine and keeps its compact form, growing 60 to 90cm high and wide. Caring for philodendrons www.lvgplant.co.za