While the semi-discrete kits conceived for fitment to the Toyota Hilux and Ford Ranger bakkies have become firm favourites in South Africa’s broader security industry, this latest Plus version created for the rugged Land Cruiser 79 will appeal to users seeking an even more comprehensive package. Stopgun V2.0 Plus kit for Land Cruiser 79 This level B6 kit is available for both single- and double-cab Land Cruiser 79 body styles, and offers protection against assault rifles, including AK-47 and R1. Like SVI’s other Stopgun V2.0 packages, this latest iteration features unobtrusive integrated door armour rather than the widely used double-door system, along with suitably upgraded hinges. Furthermore, flat armoured glass is bolted into each window frame, enhancing the structural integrity of the Land Cruiser 79’s doors and allowing for fuss-free replacement should any damage be sustained during an attack.  Meanwhile, gunports are included, though can be deleted upon request. A split windscreen is standard, with curved glass available as an option, as fitted to the vehicle in the accompanying images (which furthermore wears a likewise optional bull bar and ballistic grille combination). The roof, front fenders and all pillars gain B6 bullet-resistant protection as well, as does the under-bonnet battery and ABS unit. A front suspension upgrade is also included. The Land Cruiser 79 kit is differentiated from SVI’s other Stopgun V2.0 packages by the fact it boasts full firewall protection, with the resulting armouring process requiring the temporary removal of the dashboard (a task with which SVI has extensive experience). In addition, the new package upgrades to full ballistic overlaps around the entirety of each door aperture, including the floor and sides. Despite these additions, the Stopgun V2.0 Plus package for the Land Cruiser 79 remains cost effective – undercutting SVI’s B6 discreet solution by more than R150 000 – and benefits from a short build time of just six weeks, with the vehicle still serviceable at the agent thereafter.  According to Nicol Louw, business development manager at SVI, the robust Land Cruiser 79 – the vehicle the company also uses as a base for its MAX 3 range of armoured personnel carriers – was the ideal candidate for the latest evolution of the Stopgun V2.0 kit. “We identified a need for an even more comprehensive solution and went about designing and manufacturing a bespoke package for the Land Cruiser 79, taking advantage of our considerable experience armouring this particular model. “As a result, the new Plus kit slots in above the recently released B4+ Stopgun V2.0 Lite and popular B6 Stopgun V2.0 packages, providing the ultimate semi-discreet ballistic protection for a vehicle that rightly holds the title of master of Africa,” said Louw. Pricing: Single-cab from R384 950 (ex VAT) / Double-cab from R549 950 (ex VAT) Source: QuickPic