LIMPOPO – The spokesperson for the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM) Matodzi Ralushai said the cause of the water shortage that led to violent protests in the Musina area was due to leaks in the main pipes from the Limpopo River at the Beitbridge Border Post. Last week, residents continued with their protest against the VDM’s failure to supply water to the community. The unrest started on May 10, when residents brought the town to a complete standstill as chaos ensued. Unconfirmed reports state that three people were shot and injured by police during the protest. Read more: EFF and DA lash out at Limpopo police’s response to Musina protests Schools were closed, roads were blocked and shops were closed while protestors went on the rampage, looting whatever they could find. Residents expressed their frustration in the district’s failure to provide functioning water systems but instead giving them water tankers that do not serve everyone. Read more: Musina residents – “We will die of thirst” During the protests, people in the community went on the rampage, blocked the roads, burned tyres and looted shops in Nancefield and Musina. The protesters also set alight a municipal office, vehicle and tractor, and damaged police vehicles and the fire station building. Ralushai said the VDM drilled six boreholes and Venetia Mine added another four boreholes to address the water shortage. He said there was no water in other areas because of the low volume of water and promised that the problem would be fixed soon. The Minister of Water and Sanitation, Senzo Mchunu offered support to the municipality in restoring and ensuring the continued provision of water and sanitation services to the residents of Vhembe. Mchunu visited the area to address the water shortage issues on Monday. Limpopo police spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that residents burned down a municipal building, a car, a tractor, damaged the fire station and shops were looted during a protest. He confirmed that nine people were arrested during the unrest and said the police will continue to monitor the area. Read more: Five more arrested in connection with Musina unrest 