“I have always advocated for an increased partnership between our TVET colleges and the industry as we continuously enhance our curriculum to respond to the needs of the industry. I therefore directed that all our TVET colleges embrace the latest National List of Occupations in High Demand (OIHD) in South Africa, which I publicly announced. The list reflects the work undertaken by the DHET, through the Labour Market Intelligence research programme, to support human resource development in our country,” said Nzimande. The launch of the TMA was preceded by the signing of a memorandum of understanding between UNDP South Africa and DHET, supported by the government of Japan, in July 2021. The parties agreed to set up a project that would up-skill youth and women for skills relevant to the automotive industry, supported by the government of Japan.  “Youth development is key to addressing the triple development challenges of poverty, inequality and unemployment. Honing their skills and unlocking their untapped talent not only promote inclusive and sustainable economic development, but also have a transformational impact on society. We are very proud of many achievements in youth development the project has made in such a short period through the multi-stakeholder partnerships,” confirmed Dr Dr Ayodele Odusola, resident representative for the UNDP in South Africa. According to TSAM’s senior vice president of Corporate Services Group, Suben Moodley, the automotive sector is facing what the Toyota Motor Corporation president, Akio Toyoda, described as a “once in century period of disruption”. This refers to transformation by a wide range of new technologies and non-technological aspects such as social, economic, and environmental factors are part of our future landscape.  “Traditional markets are being redefined as new types of vehicles are introduced, ranging from hybrid to plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell electric vehicles, with a wide range of driver assistance systems, which require digitisation and smart factory systems with the skills set to go along with them. “Equally important, soft skills such as resilience, flexibility, problem solving and creativity will be highly valued. This aspect should not be underestimated and needs to be included in educational training programs. So, the challenge is not just technical skills but a combination of soft and technical skills,” concluded Moodley. Source: MotorPress