POLOKWANE – The School Breakfast Series that was held at Mitchell House on May 17, took place under the theme ‘Post Covid-19: Bridging the gap’. Teachers from local schools were in attendance to learn about Optimi Classroom, which is one of four areas covered by the Optimi Group. The other areas are Optimi Home, Optimi College and Optimi Workplace. Optimi Classroom is there to identify areas of need to help teachers and learners to reach their full potential. Optimi managing director Aunyana Moloisane explained that they identify areas of concern in the classroom and also provide solutions to those areas. Optimi Classroom helps learners to take charge of their learning journey through subject diagnostics where learners take online assessments to test and benchmark their proficiency against acceptable standards in a subject. Optimi Classroom also provides course material, tutoring, and study methods to help learners improve their marks. Their Career Campus tool offers personalised career guidance which gives learners career options suited to their personalities. Moloisane added that there are no platform fees, and that there are new developments from Optimi which include Optimi e-library that will be rolled out next year. The e-library will help bridge the digital gap, while the Optimi learning portal provides a more interactive experience for teachers and learners. The portal also has a robotics programme to assist learners in each stage; from beginners to masters. Renaye Keus, Optimi tertiary manager, thanked the teachers in attendance for the outstanding job they have been doing during the pandemic. She added that Optimi Classroom has two plans of action to help bridge the gap in learning that was caused by the pandemic. One is to identify the area of concern and second is how to address it. “We have products that will help you to get to that point which is the personalised diagnostic test, which shows you where the child is academically. The test will highlight their areas of strength and areas that need to be improved. These will remove the hassle of conducting tests for learners and marking them which will take up a lot of time for the teacher, as this test is self-marking,” she explained. The diagnostic test is available for mathematics for Gr 1 to 9 and other subjects will be introduced at a later stage. 