Is your child more interested in lying on the couch than helping with daily chores? Is your child only interested in activities that require minimal effort? Is your child’s character displaying a strong feeling of entitlement? If you answered ‘YES’ to most of these questions, you might be the parent of a lazy child! Before diving into ways to get your child more motivated to be less lazy, keep in mind that what works for one child may not work for another. Most of the time, what you do as a parent is a significant first step towards identifying where your child’s “laziness” comes from. Here are some recommendations on how to deal with a lazy child. Set a good example: Children pick up on what they observe. As a result, if you want your child to take responsibility for their homework or cleaning their bedroom, show them how to do it. Let your child view you as a role model and be constant in your efforts. If you’re sitting on the couch eating snacks and watching your favourite soap opera all day long, you can’t expect your child to get things done. Establish expectations: Give your child chores that are appropriate for their age. Don’t assume they understand the chores or duties; explain in simple terms and, if required, demonstrate how things need to be done in your child’s presence. The time and effort you put into educating your child on how to do things correctly will pay off in the long run, not only in simple tasks like putting their clothes in the wash basket or taking their plates to the kitchen but in other facets of life. Set deadlines once you’ve given directions on what to expect so your child can complete the assignment on time. Make it a habit to give and volunteer: Teach your child to give to others, both inside the home and in society as a whole. Engage your child in voluntary activities that benefit communities. Allow your child to witness how many others can benefit from charitable contributions to society. When your child volunteers, they will learn to be grateful and content with what they have rather than focussing on what they lack. When your child learns to give back, they also learn to value the art of donating free time and resources to a great cause. Promote outdoor activities: Outdoor activities lift our spirits and make us feel at ease. According to psychology studies, being in nature promotes energy and a sense of well-being. Doing some exercises outside, clearing the garden, or simply taking a walk around the block with your child will help motivate them. Limit how much you do for your child: Doing too much for your child deprives them of the necessary skills and practice to build mastery in life. Your child will become accustomed to others doing things for them, feeding their laziness rather than dealing with it. Recognise your child’s strengths and encourage them to take on responsibility: Introduce new activities gradually and monitor your child’s performance. This may be difficult at first, but it will greatly reduce laziness and pay off in the end. Provide constructive feedback: Learning to encourage and congratulate your child when they perform well is a terrific motivator that will push them to accomplish more in the future. 