Eugene Herbert, congratulated each person and organisation who entered the inaugural event. “A hearty congratulations is owed to every entrant who prioritises road safety and sees the value of the Fleet Safety Awards. The value of the efforts and road safety practices of all 110 entrants were not missed.” Best company: Reef Tankers (first place) claimed the top spot followed by Tanker Services Fuel & Gas Division at Imperial Logistics SA Group in second place and VitalAire in third place. Best fleet manager: Jonathan Mphake from Eazi Access won the top award followed by Louw Riekert from Diraro Group in second and Edward Hoffmann from Tanker Services Fuel & Gas in third place. To all those who achieved one of the coveted spots in the awards, your position is well earned and deserved, as the judging process ensured absolute transparency. “All identifying information was removed from the entries to ensure that judges were not aware of who they were scoring, thereby increasing the objectivity of the awards. “MasterDrive conveys their sincere congratulations to each finalist, and in particular to the top three best fleet managers and best companies. Each individual and organisation illustrated their commitment to and passion for road safety and displayed themselves as a leader in changing the current situation on our roads. You deserve the honour of being recognised in the inaugural Fleet Safety Awards and we invite you to join us in increasing road safety going forward.” The awards were made even better with the support of our dedicated partners. “Each organisation embraced the Fleet Safety Awards and its potential to improve road safety in the country with as much enthusiasm and commitment as what MasterDrive does. It is a refreshing experience working with organisations that are as committed to road safety and we look forward to the next few Fleet Safety Awards with you as partners by our side.” A hearty thanks is also owed to our judges who did not face an easy task. “There was a great deal of data to sort through and understand. Yet, each judge embraced the opportunity to do this and looks forward to joining the judging panel again next year. “Lastly, thank you to every person who presented or attended either virtually or in-person. It shows the level of commitment that so many individuals and organisations have in improving the state of road safety in our country. The support received was humbling and indicative of the desire to bring about real change to the state of our roads through the efforts of organisations.” MasterDrive looks forward to start planning the next Fleet Safety Awards. “It has proven itself to be a much-needed and fruitful experience and we look forward to emulating it in the coming years,” concluded MasterDrive CEO, Eugene Herbert. Source: MotorPress