As a parent, you play an important part in keeping your children healthy. One of the most effective methods is to teach kids how to prevent germs from making them and others sick. This is especially critical when contagious bugs are present, such as during cold and flu season. A few basic lessons will help your youngster stay healthy and well at any time of year by preventing germs: Germs can be controlled by keeping your hands clean. Teach children to wash their hands frequently with soap and running water. Demonstrate how to scrub thoroughly for at least 20 seconds. Singing a tune can help you keep track of time. Make it a habit for them to wash their hands before eating, after playing outside, after touching pets, or any other time germs are prone to spread. When kids don’t have access to a sink, hand sanitiser is an acceptable option. Give your child tissues to cover their mouth and nose if they are coughing or sneezing. Remind them to wash their hands after disposing of used tissues. Show them how to sneeze or cough into their elbow instead of their hands when they don’t have a tissue. When germs are prevalent or your child is ill, wearing a disposable or cloth face mask is another effective technique to protect others. You most likely spend a significant amount of time telling your youngster to share. However, when a cold, flu or other bug is present, it is advisable to keep some personal objects to themselves. Toys, hairbrushes, pencils, lip balm, food, and water bottles are examples of such items. Even with frequent hand washing, germs can accumulate on your child’s hands. Encourage kids to avoid touching their lips, nose, and eyes, which are the main entry points for bacteria and viruses into the body. There are many damaging pathogens that live in water fountains, which cause people to get sick. E-coli, legionella, and coliform are three types of bacteria found in water fountains. Instead of letting your child use a public water fountain, send your child to school with their own water bottle. Teach your youngster to preserve some distance, especially if you know there are germs around or someone near to you is unwell. This will help to halt the spread of pathogens. In addition to your child’s hands, clean surfaces that they frequently touch, such as doorknobs, tables, phones, keyboards, faucets, and sinks. Show them how to use a sanitising wipe or disinfectant appropriately. Nobody wants to be left out. However, if your child is coughing, sneezing, has a fever, or just doesn’t feel well, tell them it’s better for them to stay at home. Shots aren’t much fun. However, they are one of the most effective ways to combat various infections, including the flu. Take your children to get their vaccinations and explain why it’s so vital. The immune system is our bodies’ incredible, built-in protection against pathogens. Kids may not realise it, but the actions they do every day to stay healthy can help to maintain this defence system robust. Assist them in making the link between eating nutritious foods, getting adequate sleep, being active, and having a good immune system.