Adele du Toit, spokesperson for the SA Rooibos Council chats about different teas, brewing the perfect cuppa and how to differentiate between tastes, flavours, mouthfeel and aromas:  Teas vs tisanes:
While tea has become so popular, few really know the difference between their teas. “Most South Africans still have the habit of referring to all leafy beverages steeped in hot water as a tea, but strictly speaking, the word ‘tea’ only refers to a beverage that comes from the Camellia Sinensis plant, which is native to Asia. “The most common tea varieties are black, green, white, oolong, purple, Pu-erh and herbal infusions. “Black and green teas are all derived from the Camellia Sinensis plant – the leaves are just processed differently. Black teas are oxidised, which gives the tea its dark colour, while white teas are left to dry. Oolong is shaken in bamboo baskets to lightly bruise and dry the leaves. “Herbal teas are referred to as tisanes (pronounced ti-zahn), since they don’t come from the Camellia Sinensis plant. “Tisanes are made from leaves, fruit, flowers, roots, berries, seeds and spices. Popular tisanes include hibiscus, mint, chamomile, lemon balm and our homegrown, Rooibos. They also don’t contain caffeine, whereas traditional teas do, albeit in varying amounts. Both teas and tisanes cater for specific health needs. Drinking Rooibos, for example, could help to:  improve heart health • maintain blood glucose/sugar levels • reduce stress and anxiety and • improve certain skin conditions  Brewing the perfect cuppa:
Tea and tisanes are rich sources of antioxidants called flavonoids. These help the body to rid itself of free radicals that damage cells. Various teas and tisanes need to be steeped differently to extract enough flavour and antioxidants so you can get the most from every cup.  White and green teas taste better when steeped in slightly cooler water for shorter times. If you over-steep or burn green tea with water that’s too hot, it spoils the sweet and vegetal (botanic) taste and will become bitter. Black tea, on the other hand, can handle the hot water and may be steeped for longer. Keep in mind that water boils at 100°, so it’s best to let it cool for a few minutes before pouring it over the teabag/ leaves. Rooibos tea should ideally be steeped for 5-10 minutes for greater antioxidant release. Since it’s naturally sweet, you can drink it as is or you can add honey or sugar to it for a sweeter taste. Tea terminology:
Just like wine, tea also has its distinct tea tasting language. Here’s how you can differentiate between tastes, flavours, mouthfeel and aromas.  If a tasty cuppa has left you speechless, a flavour wheel will help you to categorise certain characteristics of a tea/ tisane. “Start by determining the general taste and aroma of the tea/ tisane – that is the base notes. Depending on the format of the flavour wheel, you can either start from the inner circle and move progressively outwards or start from the outer circle and move towards the centre. This will help you to refine the language used to relay your sensory experience. “If it tastes fruity, determine whether it’s more citrusy or berry-like and so on. The best way to start is to choose what you’re familiar with and to then branch out.” Rooibos’ flavour profile is unique. Although it brews into a cup of intense red, the flavour is very different from black teas. “Most of us have enjoyed Rooibos in a ‘red’, fermented form, but it’s equally satisfying in its unfermented, ‘green’ guise. “When tasting Rooibos, you will notice three primary aromas – woody, fynbos-floral and honey, followed by secondary aromas: fruity-sweet, caramel and apricot. While red Rooibos has a light, earthy taste, it’s strong enough to hold other ingredients like fruit, herbs, flowers, spices and even chocolate. This allows for it to be enjoyed both hot or cold, in cappuccino, latte or espresso formats. “On the other hand, green Rooibos is more delicate and has a vegetal, yet sweet note.” She points out that when taste-testing the “liquor” of tea/tisanes – which occurs during infusion – instead of sipping, you should slurp or suck in the brew to maximise the impact on your taste buds.