Let’s face it: there’s nothing more soothing than a warm bath after a long day. That’s why, when bath time arrives, most kids jump into the tub with a smile on their face. However, while this relaxing ritual allows your child to sleep for long periods of time at night, regular scrub-downs aren’t always necessary. Most paediatricians and dermatologists say that newborns and toddlers don’t need to be bathed daily, and in most cases, it’s perfectly fine to give your child a sponge wash every other day. If you ask any parent, they’ll tell you that they bath their newborn babies virtually every day. However, from a logical standpoint, this exercise is kind of meaningless because most infants do not exert themselves enough to work up a sweat or even become dirty on a regular basis. In practice, babies do not need to be bathed daily. The Academy of Paediatrics recommends bathing infants only two to three times per week. Of course, if there’s a huge nappy blowout, a good bath may be in order. At this age, children are now learning to crawl, walk, and even run on their own. Their fine motor skills are also increasing, and they are now able to feed themselves (well, sometimes). Overall, toddler physical activity is more vigorous than in the past, which means they are more likely to become dirty, sweaty, and acquire more germs. Children aged one to three should be bathed at least twice a week, preferably three times a week, depending on how dirty they are. Pre-schoolers’ skin is less sensitive than that of newborns and toddlers since they have established some resilience to their surroundings and its microorganisms. Depending on how busy your pre-schooler is, they may only require a complete bath two to three times per week. Tip 1: This is the ideal age to educate your child on how to properly take a bath. Show them how to rinse off all the soap suds, tell them not to use too much soap, and teach them how to find the proper balance of hot and cold water. According to the American Academy of Dermatology, children aged 6 to 11 can bathe twice a week. However, because puberty is just around the corner, it’s good to gradually increase your child’s bath schedule to at least three to four times a week. At this point, your child has reached puberty (or is on the cusp of doing so), which means their body is undergoing significant changes. Two of the most noticeable are that their skin now produces more sebum oil than before and becomes dirtier/weaker more frequently. Experts advise pre-teens and teens to bath or shower every day, especially if they participate in sports, sweat a lot, or swim in a pool or the sea. This prevents debris, bacteria, and oil from accumulating on their skin and potentially causing acne. When it comes to bathing children, here are some healthy bathing guidelines. 