Tussen die Lyne, a first for Velvetblohm and part of their upcoming album, is an extraordinary track that keeps you captivated until the very end. This soft rock ballad, a joint effort by Blohm and Velvet, is about the last sentiment that is shared between two lovers, but not always conveyed. It was produced by Tertius Human. “We felt that the message behind the song would appeal to a broad audience. It’s about acknowledging that we are all fragile and vulnerable sometimes. In this case, our protagonist wants to remain (or appear to be) subjective by wishing his beloved well,” explains Ryno. “Tussen die Lyne is only the beginning for Velvetblohm. What was originally supposed to be a once-off show, has branched into an exciting project and there is also an album on the way.” Although Blohm and Velvet toured together in 2006 and 2009, they only came up with the idea of launching an official Velvetblohm act at the end of 2021. With the help of Vonk Musiek’s Kobie Koen, what started as a unique way of sharing their biggest hits with fans grew into an opportunity to record and release new material. Both artists are very excited about embarking on this journey together. “Ryno is one of my favourite vocalists in South Africa. I enjoy working with him and admire the calmness with which he takes on a project,” says Jan. Ryno adds: “Writing and recording with Jan has been an incredible experience. He can manage a project in such a way that everyone feels welcome and comfortable, and it is amazing to see him in action.” The video was filmed at Urban Brew Studios and directed by Wian van der Walt. “I thoroughly enjoyed working with these two music legends,” says van der Walt. The two dancers in the video are Sanchia Lamprecht and Michael Clarke. Watch the video below The duo is currently finalizing their debut album at Coolerbox Studio, and a nationwide tour is planned for later this year. The song is now available on all digital platforms, download it here: https://linktr.ee/velvetblohm Follow Jan Blohm on Facebook, Insta or Twitter, and Ryno on Facebook, Insta or Twitter.