POLOKWANE – In partnership with Jaguar Land Rover Polokwane, The Ranch Resort’s equestrian arena was celebrated with a cocktail party. A member of The Ranch Resort’s management team, Jaili Nicolaou thanked the team who worked extremely hard to make it happen. “We would like to thank everyone. We approached Jaguar Land Rover Polokwane 10 months ago to partner with us in order to make this a reality, and today we’ve proudly completed the task. This opening is taking place the same time as the resort turns 62. All the equipment you see in the arena, are all from our wonderful sponsors, thank you,” she said. Jaili further announced that the plants surrounding the arena have been provided by Retsini Nursery and they appreciate all the donations. “We would like to thank Peter Morison who built our two lovely arenas. We have the privilege of walking on angular sand that was imported from abroad. We’re indeed blessed to be riding on this type of unique surface, thank you for your hard work Peter,” Jaili said. She thanked Polokwane Observer and Review for all the publicity. “To all our contractors, this would have never happened, and let me tell you that construction and building are a frightening process. I’ve learned a lot throughout this project,” she said. Jaili thanked Fred du Plooy from Fred’s Towing who helped bring the equestrian idea to life and assisted them to clear the area to build the arena. Jaili concluded as she got emotional by thanking her fiancé Paul Shearer’s late brother Ryan who was passionate about horses. “We all know that Ryan was a big fan of horses and this arena is in honour of him. He’s probably looking down and is super proud of all of us. Lilly the horse is here with us on behalf of Ryan, which he bought as he wanted to compete with her, but sadly he passed away before he could ride her, we miss you Ryan,” Jaila said. As the general manager of The Ranch Resort, Paul added that everyone’s overall support is appreciated and the resort’s equestrian arena has more fun activities to offer in the upcoming months. “I’m glad that Jaili and I, the team and all our sponsors have turned this dream into a reality to benefit and grow Limpopo,” Paul concluded. Photos: A toast to the Ranch Resort’s new equestrian arena Photos of the Sanesa qualifier: Riders show off at Sanesa qualifier 