Put travel at the top of your to-do list and make it happen, as it is not only going to give you incredible memories and unforgettable experiences, it is also good for your health. Priority Escapes have shared five reasons why traveling is not only good for the soul, but for your physical health too: The Framingham heart study, one of the longest-running heart disease studies, has proven that men who take frequent holidays are 32% less likely to die from a heart attack. On the opposite side of the coin, women who go on holiday twice a year are eight times less likely to suffer from a similar cardiac event. Breaking your daily routine is highly encouraged, so when 900 attorneys were monitored after taking time off, they naturally showed lower stress levels. This long-lasting effect was proven by a Vienna study that found that professionals who go on holiday had a decrease in stress-related complaints and various kinds of aches and pains. That relief lasted at least five weeks after returning to work. Besides reducing your stress levels, travel can also assist with your sleep patterns and reaction time. It’s simple – when you are happier, you are more productive, but your last holiday also had a role to play in this! Ernst Young conducted an internal survey that found employees who took additional holiday time returned and did almost 10% better in their end year review. This also applies to small business owners who experience over 50% increase in performance after returning from holiday, so one size does fit all, in this case. Being exposed to different languages is great for your brain and helps develop your social and communication skills while improving cultural sensitivity and understanding. Travel has also been seen to improve time management, planning and organisational skills. The bonus of being able to easily navigate a global community makes you an asset to any employer. The adage that travel broadens your mind – is a fact, not fiction. People who travel have more life satisfaction and find more meaning in their lives while showing an increase in positive emotions. It’s normal to feel some form of anxiety and guilt for going on vacation, but you must enjoy your time off to reap the benefits. It is widely believed that it takes your body a full seven days to relax and unwind before you see any benefits from your “vacay”. You’ve worked so hard to earn your days off, so enjoy them on a beach in the Maldives!