Kia will launch its first dedicated “purpose built vehicle” (PBV) model in 2025, by which time the global PBV market is expected to mature. The brand’s first dedicated PBV will be similar in size to a mid-sized vehicle, with inherent scalability. Sangdae Kim, head of Kia eLCV business division, commented, “Kia is transforming its business strategy to focus on popularising EVs and introducing new mobility products that are tailored to the needs of users in markets around the world. The Niro Plus is our first step into the world of PBVs, a market that holds great potential for future development.” Niro Plus – Kia’s first PBV suitable for business and recreation Kia is planning a general version of the Niro Plus for private owners, which can be used for many business and recreational purposes including car-hailing services. For example, Kia is envisaging a scenario where a small-business owner uses the Niro Plus for work during the week, before making the most of its versatility at the weekend for leisure activities such as camping or visits to the seaside or mountains. The demand for delivery and logistics services has increased significantly following the acceleration in e-commerce during the Covid-19 pandemic.  As the PBV market grows, Kia plans to gradually expand its range from micro to large PBVs that can potentially offer an alternative to public transportation or even be used as mobile offices. The general, non-taxi version of the Niro Plus will be made available in select overseas markets in the second half of the year. In addition to the battery electric vehicle (BEV) version, the Niro Plus will be available as plug-in hybrid (PHEV) and hybrid (HEV) electric vehicles in these markets, reflecting country-specific characteristics and diverse customer needs Kia aims to gradually expand its PBV business worldwide with the Niro Plus, and further launch markets and details will be announced soon. Niro Plus taxi model The Niro Plus taxi model is based on the first generation Niro EV, Kia’s popular electric crossover. Since its launch in 2018, the Niro EV has sold globally, demonstrating the growing public appetite for versatile BEVs.  An integrated all-in-one display for the taxi model greatly improves convenience and safety for the driver, by removing the need for multiple devices and screens. The display includes all info relevant for taxi drivers to seamlessly go about their work, including navigation, app taximeter, digital tachograph and voice recognition. The system will also include data on relevant points of interest and locations of nearby EV charging stations. Kia plans to partner with local and national businesses to offer over-the-air (OTA) updates and services. Source: MotorPress