With a bit of creativity, you can create the perfect guest room with a warm and welcoming atmosphere for travel-weary guests. The key is to keep things simple and tasteful. A guest bedroom where every inch exhibits your personal taste in knick-knacks will remind your guests they are in your space, making them feel less at home. Provide a comfortable mattress – sleep on it for a few nights yourself to make sure it is cosy. Ensure the beddings are clean and fresh and that there are enough plump and comfy pillows. Provide fresh bath towels, hand towels and face cloths. Fold them neatly and place them where guests can see them. Ensure the guests know the towels are for their use and not merely decorative. Keep the guest room thoroughly cleaned at all times. If you try a quick pick up before they arrive, you will almost certainly miss undesirable things that a more thorough cleaning would have revealed. Keep extra blankets on hand and show guests where they are stored. Clear out the cupboard to provide empty hanging space as well as shelf and drawer space. Most people don’t enjoy living out of suitcases and will really appreciate being able to unpack their belongings while visiting. Guests staying for a while might need a temporary workspace, so include a desk and a comfortable chair in the room – if you have space. Set up a tray with a small coffee and tea station. Provide a small kettle as well as packets of coffee, creamer, and tea bags along with cups or mugs. Find out what snacks your visitors like and leave a few on the pillow or at the coffee station. On the back of the bedroom door, stick a notice with your WIFI access information. If they have it on hand, your guests will be able to access it on all their devices – without you having to remember the password. Along with the WIFI password of your property, list your contact numbers. Also, list any emergency numbers and the number of a recommended doctor – in case of medical emergencies while you are out. Ensure there are enough free electrical points for charging devices and plugging in hair dryers. If possible, provide a universal charger for cell phones and tablets. It will save your guests having to buy a new charger if they forget theirs at home. Provide a basket of toiletries in case they have forgotten something at home. Include mini versions of soap, toothpaste, dental floss, toothbrushes, mouthwash, shampoo, conditioner, face and body lotion, sunscreen, eye drops, a hairbrush and comb, plasters and cotton pads. If you want to spoil special guests, hang some comfortable bathrobes in the cupboard or behind the door for them to discover. Most travellers don’t have the space to pack their bathrobes, but they are handy for early morning trips to the bathroom. The tips provided above, if well implemented, will assist you in creating the perfect guest bedroom.