POLOKWANE – The Limpopo Department of Sport, Arts and Culture officially launched the Limpopo Netball Fridays under the hashtag, #TakingNetballBackToThePeople. The launch was hosted in collaboration with Netball SA to create awareness and mobilise communities to support the forthcoming 2023 Netball World Cup. Netball SA president Cecilia Molokwane said she was pleased to launch the Limpopo Netball Fridays in Polokwane. “When I learned the initiative was coming to my hometown, I was overjoyed. You might also want to read: Local netball players selected for national squad “It’s not just a normal netball Friday, this is a netball Friday with the hype I know Polokwane has and I enjoyed the day so much. I wish the province the best and hope this initiative does not stop here. We want everybody to know about it. I am glad to see people excited about the Netball World Cup, and hope that these netball Fridays will continue to get the fans ready for the world cup,” said Molokwane. According to the MEC for Sport, Arts, and Culture, Thandi Moraka, this is history in the making for Limpopo, particularly for the local netball players. “We made the decision to ensure the same attention we gave to football during the 2010 world cup will be afforded to the 2023 Netball World Cup. “As we build towards the world cup, we want to start encouraging our people to participate in netball Friday like we did with soccer in 2010 to spread awareness and excitement,” said Moraka. She said the department will work together with other relevant departments to make this initiative a success. “Because it is also a school sport we need the Department of Basic Education and the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture to collaborate and come up with programmes that will help motivate learners to participate in the sporting code,” she said. Department of Education MEC Polly Boshielo said they are in full support of the Limpopo Netball Fridays. “We are happy that sport is back at our schools because a healthy mind and body makes learning very enjoyable. We want the learners in all the schools to participate in sports. We will support netball Fridays in all our schools and make sure that learners participate,” said Boshielo. 