Held annually, in proud partnership with the Association of Arts Pretoria, this prestigious art competition is the longest-running of its kind in South Africa. The competition is open to all South African visual artists who are 18 years and older and who have not yet held a solo exhibition. Artists can submit their artworks in all artistic mediums – painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture, photography, video and installations. Sasol New Signatures shines the spotlight on South African artistic talent and creates opportunities to showcase undiscovered artists. This competition has over the years provided a platform for unknown artists to break into the mainstream. “If you are an artist who is looking for a career in the art arena, have the talent and the drive and the vision for a solo exhibition – this is the competition for you! It gives you an opportunity to have your work seen, not only by the judges but also by the art-loving public. You just never know who is watching,” said National Chairperson, Dr Pfunzo Sidogi. Contemporary, innovative and emerging artists with winning aspirations, who are willing to go beyond their imagination, are invited to submit their artworks at one of several collection points around the country on Tuesday 7 and Wednesday 8 June for judging and selection for the Sasol New Signatures exhibition 2022. A completed entry form and supporting documentation must be submitted along with the artworks.  The overall winner will receive R100 000 and a solo exhibition at next year’s exhibition. The runner up will receive R25 000 and the five merit award winners will each walk away with R10 000. All selected entries will be that will be exhibited at the Pretoria Art Museum and featured in the prestigious exhibition catalogue. Regional judges will be looking closely at artistic concept, the use of materials as well as artworks that make a strong statement and exude a superior quality of craftsmanship and technical skill and most importantly are display ready. Make sure to read the entry form thoroughly, view the information video and visit the Sasol New Signatures blog for tips and advice on presentation, pricing and making sure your entries are ready for the judges. Here is where you can enter: For more info on the competition, head over to www.sasolsignatures.co.za