Do you have trouble finding activities that the whole family can enjoy on Sundays? These activities are perfect for family adventures when you and your kids need to get out of the house. There’s always something for everyone, in warm or chilly weather. South Africa’s magnificent botanical gardens are home to numerous indigenous and endangered plants and wildlife, making them prime attractions year-round. For a full list of botanical gardens, click here. If you live in or near a big city, you probably have access to a science museum. Explore the displays ranging from marine life to astrology and all in between to satisfy your child’s curiosity. Attend a lecture, live performance, or IMAX screening for an in-depth look at one of the many fascinating topics. Who doesn’t appreciate watching a sporting event in real-time? You don’t have to take your child to a huge stadium to watch a Springbok game for them to have fun. Just head on over to a local sports field and let your child cheer on whichever players are on the field. As a special treat, take your child to a concert. There are always some great kiddie life shows and theatre productions available. Have a look at Facebook events for some ideas of fun shows and concerts that are age-appropriate for your child. Amusement parks have something for everyone in the family, whether you want to experience the thrills of a roller coaster or want to glide on an old-fashioned carousel. When you’ve had your fill of the rides, head to the arcade for some friendly family competition! Make contact with nature. Grab the bug spray, pitch a tent, and tell ghost stories over the campfire while roasting marshmallows. If a weekend trip to a campground isn’t an option, throw your own garden camping night. It’s amazing how your own backyard can transform into a natural wonderland at night! Even adults can find animated movies enjoyable and pleasant! Your child will enjoy watching their favourite characters on the big screen while you can sit back, relax, and enjoy some quiet time. After all, who can say no to popcorn? Take a leisurely stroll or hike along a nature trail or scenic road to enjoy nature while getting some exercise. Learn about the native flowers, trees, and birds in your neighbourhood and give your kids an informal nature lesson. If hiking isn’t your thing, bring a picnic lunch and head to a neighbouring park to feed the birds, pick some flowers, and soak up some rays. If you’re searching for something out of the ordinary to do on a Sunday, why not head on over to your local bowling alley. Put on your goofy shoes and indulge in some friendly competition with your kids. If your children are young, request that bumpers be installed on the lanes to avoid gutter balls.