Louis van Huyssteen, RMI national training director said of the 290 680 young people who will rewrite their national senior certificate (NSC) and the extended senior certificate (SC) exams, many will be given a second chance to meet the requirements of the NSC or SC and obtain a Grade 12 matric certificate. “We encourage those who are successful to consider one of the many qualifications being offered at TVET colleges around the country. In the retail motor industry sector specifically, we are urgently looking for skills and young South Africans who embrace apprenticeships can enjoy earning while they learn,” he said. Van Huyssteen said the opportunities to specialise are exciting, allowing young people to explore sought-after expert areas including colour mixer and matcher; application of waterborne and two- and three-stage pearlescent paint; passenger and commercial vehicle technicians; vehicle engine remanufacturing; diagnostic and fault-finding technicians; coded welding, and steering geometry and advanced driver-assistance systems. Rasheed Adhikari, facilitator at the College of Cape Town for Centre of Specialisation Motor Mechanic Programme (three years) agreed, saying that a TVET qualification is the best qualification for any learner looking to do a trade qualification. It is a three-year course where he/she will qualify as an artisan who can then start earning a decent salary. If that artisan wants to further his studies, he can even study further while he earns and either achieve a technical diploma at one of the universities of technology or a degree at one of the universities. Adhikari said a university or a technical qualification is not for everyone.
“Not every learner has the dexterity, technical or cognitive ability to do a modern motor mechanic apprenticeship, but for those who have the skill, our artisan programmes are an excellent entry point into the workplace and the learner is virtually guaranteed employment when he/she qualifies. The reality is that qualified tradesmen are well respected all over the world and in many European countries even earn more than doctors or lawyers.” The final word of encouragement comes from 20-year-old Ceajay Bosman, a second-year automotive motor mechanic apprentice from the Port Elizabeth TVET College, who recently walked away with gold in the automotive motor mechanic sector at WorldSkills Africa in Namibia. Bosman concluded, “To all matrics doing rewrites of their final exams, I wish you good luck! I would like to encourage you to really think hard about your career choices for the future. The automotive industry is huge and there are so many exciting jobs out there. At the end of matric, I made the last-minute decision to join the industry and follow in my father’s footsteps. He owns Magic Auto Sales & Service Centre and it is a decision that I will never regret. My apprenticeship is run by Merseta through Port Elizabeth TVET College. This is where I got the opportunity to participate in the WorldSkills Africa competition where I represented South Africa and was awarded gold. Our country is looking for mechanics and without young people starting as apprentices, there will be no mechanics in the future. Good luck and study hard!” Source: Cathey Findley PR