POLOKWANE – Founder and owner of TPK Private Tutoring Project, Thibudi Khalo, managed to employ over 50 graduates from various universities on a part-time basis. He would, however, like to receive funding to employ these employees on a full-time contract. “These graduates have studied different fields and are doing very well when it comes to assisting me within the company, but due to financial instability, they’re only hired temporarily. If I can manage to get financial assistance for the centre from any individuals, private or public sectors, I will definitely be able to hire more than 100 unemployed graduates full-time as my tutors to help curb poverty so that they can provide for their families,” Thibudi said. You might also want to read: Local teacher turns to tutoring during lockdown TPK comes from his full names and surname, Thibudi Perciuos Khalo, and he told BONUS his company was inspired by the community he grew up in; Lepotlako village, Ga-Maraba outside Seshego, where he finished his primary and high school career. “I prioritise education because without education, most goals are impossible to achieve. I believe education is key and it allows one to survive, to bring knowledge and change future leaders within the societal environment,” he said. Thibudi firmly believes in education and has a bachelor’s degree in administration in local government management from the University of Limpopo. He was also awarded a best class representative certificate by the faculty of developmental studies for three consecutive years. “After that I volunteered to work as a youth care worker at Mphatlalatsane Drop-in-Centre for almost six years,” he explained. He also volunteered in many community projects and was offered a few job opportunities at various schools as an assistant teacher before he decided to start his company. To assist Thibudi develop his company and employ more graduates full-time, you can contact him on 076 486 1748 or email him at 90thibudikhalo@gmail.com. 