LIMPOPO – What was known as the Thohoyandou Botanical Garden, will from now on be known as the Thohoyandou National Botanical Garden. Forestry, Fisheries and Environment Minister Barbra Creecy and South African National Biodiversity chairperson Professor Edward Nesamvuni, marked The International Day for Biological Diversity by launching the national botanical garden on May 22. Creecy said at least 200 temporary job opportunities will be created through the establishment of the garden. She explained that R20m was secured from the department’s environmental programmes budget, while a further R20m was secured from the national Department of Tourism, for garden development and tourism destination promotion. According to Creecy, the garden is a biodiversity centre in Limpopo that showcases traditional botanical garden infrastructure, and plays an important role of distributing indigenous knowledge and practices in conservation. “We want to continue to grant access to your community to visit ancestral graves located within these gardens, but in a more dignified and structural manner. The benefit to the surrounding communities was the key factor in establishing the garden. The Vhavenda nation has a rich and unique cultural heritage, which the garden will aim to preserve,” said Creecy.’ International Day for Biological Diversity’s theme this year is Building a Shared Future for all Life. Therefore, the launch of the country’s 11th national botanical garden was a fitting way to celebrate the day. The declaration of the garden as a national botanical garden is the first in the province and will supplement the national network of botanical gardens. The site is located in the major urban centre of Thohoyandou and will serve as an additional nature-based, cultural and scientific tourism attractions. The garden will contribute to the area’s socio-economic development and enhance tourism by linking with local and regional tourism initiatives. Khosi Ntikedzeni Muraga-Mphaphuli, who represented Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli, said they were over the moon to learn about the upgrade and hope the communities around will hugely benefit. “We still need the department to fund some developmental projects in this areas, which will help fight poverty and unemployment that hinder rural communities. “As royal leaders, we are the custodians of the people and we are happy when developmental projects create jobs for our rural communities,” concluded Muraga-Mphaphuli. 