The Lexus NX hybrid range joins its petrol grade siblings – the 2.5-litre normally-aspirated eight-speed automatic EX grade and the 2.4-litre turbocharged petrol grade which comes in F Sport guise. In the newly minted hybrid range, the models comprise three derivatives, namely: NX 350h EX (standard grade), NX 350h SE (luxury spec) and NX 350h F Sport. With an extensive list of firsts, from the introduction of the all-new 14-inch Lexus Interface multimedia system and the “Hello Lexus” voice command to the E-latch door system, the 2022 Lexus NX sets the stage for the next chapter of the Lexus brand. The Lexus NX has been redesigned from the inside out. Every exterior surface has been reimagined. The signature spindle grille has been refined in the front. And, perhaps the most notable expression of future Lexus design is the elegant new block Lexus rear badging and full-width tail lamp.  Advanced technology abounds in the all-new NX. Drivers can stay in touch with the intuitive features of Lexus Interface, such as wireless Apple Car Play and Android Auto, as well as other niceties such as the Lexus Voice Assistant. A fourth-generation large capacity hybrid system combining a highly efficient 2.5 litre inline four-cylinder engine with a high output has been adopted. The NX hybrid powertrain delivers a total system output of 179kW. All-important fuel-sipping credentials come in at 5.0 litres per 100 kilometres. The NX hybrid will dispatch the obligatory 0-to-100 sprint in just 7.7 seconds, reaching a governed top speed of 200 km/h. The hybrid model’s system design has been improved with a new front transaxle and a compact lithium-ion battery. A standard feature is the motor-driven AWD E-Four system which has been incorporated on the rear transaxle. This system aids with improved torque delivery to the rear wheels, thus providing excellent performance off the line and improved overall drivability as well as fuel economy. The NX 350h EX retails for R888 500, the 350h SE grade is R1 040 700, while the flagship F-Sport hybrid grade carries a price tag of R 1 065 500.  Lexus safety system across the range The Lexus NX 350h EX opens the range with Lexus-first technologies including new e-latch electrically-activated door handles. The SE grade and F-Sport mechanism goes a step further and incorporates safe exit assist (SEA)- which can detect cyclists or vehicles passing close to the vehicle and can keep the door closed to avoid a collision. Standard across the range is the pre-crash system which has now been improved and includes front cross-traffic alert. This system alerts the driver when a vehicle is approaching from either side in front of the vehicle. Other safety gizmos include a parking support brake with obstacle and vehicle detection, blind-spot monitor, dynamic radar active cruise control and lane tracing assist.  Lexus NX – Next is now Lexus South Africa said, “The all-new Lexus NX range will reset luxury medium SUV benchmarks with its brave design, exhilarating performance and imaginative technology. “It combines luxury specification and famous Takumi craftsmanship with next-generation design and a level of technology that extends from active safety and security to infotainment and powertrains.” Aftersales and product range Every Lexus NX is delivered with the Lexus warranty experience featuring the brand’s best-in-class 7-year/105 000km warranty and full maintenance plan. Source: MotorPress