You’ve been looking forward to this moment for a long time: looking into your newborn’s eyes for the first time. What’s fascinating is that your baby’s birth eye colour may or may not be their final eye colour: the colour may change over the next few months and years. What factors influence eye colour, why may it take some time for your baby’s eyes to reach their final hue, and when will you know their eye colour for sure? Eye colour refers to the appearance of the iris, which is the muscular ring that surrounds the pupil (the black area) of each eye. The iris controls the amount of light that enters the eye. The colour of the iris can range from very light blue to extremely dark brown. Unless your baby has jaundice, which creates a yellow tint, or their eyes have inflammation and are pink or red, their pupils will always be black, and their sclera (the whites) will almost always be white. Melanin, a chemical produced by melanocytes, which also produces your baby’s skin colour, is responsible for the colour of your baby’s irises. Babies of dark-skinned heritage are almost always born with brown eyes, whereas Caucasian newborns are almost always born with blue or grey eyes. Over time, your baby’s eyes may change colour. Babies born with brown eyes will almost certainly remain brown-eyed throughout their life. However, babies born with blue/grey eyes may change eye colour. The full colour of your baby’s eyes appears after about a year. While the rate of colour change slows after six months, the colour may still change. Colour changes in the eyes can occasionally last several years before they become permanent. Eye colour is determined by genetics. A single chromosome determines the majority of eye colour. It has two genes, one that regulates melanocyte activity and the other that controls the amount of melanin in the iris. These genes work together to define the colour of the eyes. Other genes have a minimal impact. You can’t always predict your baby’s eye colour by looking at your own and your partner’s, but your guess may come true every now and again – it’s all a game of genetics. Here are some colour options for your baby’s eyes: 