The exterior now boasts a frameless but expertly integrated spindle grille. It is 10mm wider, 30mm higher with wider front and rear tread than the previous model. Its new headlamps convey an aggressive look and will deliver exceptional light distribution. The rear lamps combine the L-shaped lights with a straight line to create a sharply distinctive lighting system. Engine and powertrain In addition to engine repositioning, the engine sound has also been enhanced. The new LX comes with a choice of two powertrains: a 3.5-litre V6 twin-turbo petrol and a 3.3-litre V6 twin-turbo diesel. These new engines provide better output and torque with elevated levels of refinement when compared to the outgoing model. The new V6 twin-turbo petrol engine has a total output of 305kW and 650Nm. The new diesel engine delivers 225kW and 700Nm. The four-wheel drive system has been improved for outstanding capabilities in off-road conditions. The system consists of open front and rear differentials and a locking Torsen centre differential.  Other impressive across-the-range features These include a human-centred Tazuna cockpit concept with dual centre screens, an across-the-range BladeScan adaptive high-beam system and a 25-speaker Mark Levinson Premium Surround Sound System – the most comprehensive in any Lexus. Also available in all grades is a Lexus-debut fingerprint identification for engine start. Other convenient niceties include an across-the-range power and hands-free rear boot function, semi-aniline leather trim, park distance control with intelligent clearance sonar and rear LX F sport grades The F Sport grade is available for the first time for LX. This long-awaited model provides a unique driving experience, particularly on winding roads.  Safety first (all models) The advanced Lexus Safety System+ technology suite includes a pre-collision system with pedestrian and daytime cyclist detection, front and rear parking support brake with obstacle and vehicle detection, blind-spot monitor, dynamic radar cruise control, lane tracing assist and a tyre pressure warning monitor. New across-the-range safety technologies include turn assist, which is helpful when negotiating tight corners. The driver can also activate the turn assist function which essentially applies brake force to the inside rear wheel to shorten the overall turning cycle of the vehicle. An LX-first emergency steering assist also works to aid the driver when executing an evasive steering manoeuvre by helping to maintain vehicle stability and keeping the vehicle in its lane. Retail pricing starts at R2 206 600 and includes an industry-leading seven-year/100 000-kilometre warranty. Source: MotorPress