The new generation Isuzu N & F-Series trucks with 23 N-Series models offers GVMs from 4 200kg to 8 500kg, and 24 F-Series models offer GVMs from 11 000kg to 26 000kg. Vehicle selection does not stop at GVM and GCM – a wide range of transmissions includes the class-leading automated manual transmission (AMT). There are four N-Series models equipped with AMT and six F-Series models with AMT technology. Allison torque convertor transmissions are available in the Isuzu FV1400 while the new generation model FVM 1200 moves up from a 6-speed ZF to a 9-speed ZF transmission. Cab configuration – a critical choice for crew transport Isuzu leads in the safe transfer of driver and crew. It is a legal requirement that goods and passengers must be separated by a partition.
The new N-Series has five crew cab models with GVMs ranging from 5 500kg to 7 700kg, with the new F-series at 14 000kg GVM two models.  Isuzu’s New Variable Warranty Enhances Fleet Owner Choice The first of its kind in South Africa, Isuzu Motors South Africa (IMSA) is now offering an innovative aftersales solution in the form of variable warranty plans. These are specifically tailored to fit the needs of short, medium, or long-haul operators and will enhance Isuzu truck customer experience. The Isuzu variable warranty plan allows greater flexibility for truck customers. In addition to the standard two-year unlimited kilometre warranty, customers and operators can opt-in on a variable warranty plan, extending the warranty period to either three, four or five years. The variable warranty plan is valid from the date of sale of a new vehicle to the original retail purchaser up to a maximum of 500 000km on N-Series trucks, and 700 000km on F- and FX-Series trucks. Maintenance terms and conditions apply to the specific variable warranty selected. The variable warranty Plan is available at no additional upfront cost on all new Isuzu truck chassis cabs across the N-Series, F-Series, and FX-Series ranges purchased and operating in South Africa. This excludes truck bodies and certain applications such as tippers, compactors, and mixers.  Telematics for the entire Isuzu truck range Isuzu satisfies modern fleet management expectations with the most up-to-date telematics system. Telematics offers real-time fleet management and driver development – it is an essential component of driver training. Telematics is also leading evidence in any court action following a road incident and thus protects a driver against spurious claims.
Compatible with the mix telematics fleet management system, it is also compatible with existing 3rd party fleet management systems at a small additional cost. The stolen vehicle recovery service ready – BEAME – has been installed for some years now. Tubeless tyres – fleet owners choice The advantage built into tubeless tyres is cooler running – the result of no friction between a tube and the tyre itself. The lower operating temperature has the additional benefit of extending the tyre life for lower variable costs.
Less rolling resistance from a tubeless tyre turns in lower fuel consumption – lowering the cost of ownership. Source: QuickPic