Durban is set to host a life-changing and empowering property investment seminar on the 4th of June at The Capital Pearls, Umhlanga. This event, hosted by Private Property in partnership with Prosperity Enterprises, comes on the back of increasing demand for property investment opportunities and a glaring gap in critical information that enables sound property investment decisions. The Property investment seminar in Durban has therefore been designed to unlock and highlight investment opportunities and avail vital and scarce property knowledge aimed at improving the financial well-being of old and new entrants in this lucrative business sector. The seminar is a perfect platform for meaningful engagement, networking with other property investors, and learning from some of the best minds on how to reap great returns and become financially secure through timely and informed property investment decisions. Attendees can look forward to the privilege of being availed with a highly acknowledged and sought-after, tried and tested model when investing in property. This model is the ultimate guide and insights avenue for wealth creation through property. These topical subject matters will be delivered by Jaco Grobbelaar and Ewan Rourke, both highly esteemed local and international expert speakers on property investment and other property related matters. One major highlight of this one-day event will be the revelation of rare real-time insights on property market activity in and around Durban. From these insights, attendees will be able to have a first-hand understanding of demand shifts for rental properties and key consumer demand indicators in the property market. There will also be a prize-giving ceremony at the end of the day. Tickets for this prestigious Investment Seminar are available as single or double tickets at competitive prices. Early bird special prices offer ends on the 20th of May 2022. Tickets can be booked here https://investmentseminar.privateproperty.co.za or by emailing seminars@prosperityenterprises.co.za. A one-on-one consultation discount voucher is available at a 20% discount included in your ticket price. You can be guaranteed that this event will be worth every penny and minute.