LIMPOPO – The spokesperson of the Makhado Municipality, Louis Bobodi said the municipality has not received any formal complaints concerning the appointment of workers. This follows accusations of running a jobs-for-pals scheme by the Zoutpansberg Community Development Forum (ZCDF), where family and friends of councillors, specifically those serving in executive positions, are given preference. Bobodi said that when they receive a formal complaint, they will investigate these allegations. You might also want to read: Makhado Park residents fix their own potholes The ZCDF recently launched a scathing attack on the municipality, vowing to not let go of the matter until a thorough investigation is done. “Allegations of nepotism and cronyism are rife in this municipality, and we want investigations urgently,” said Patrick Sikhutshi, the chairperson of the ZCDF. Sikhutshi explained that the municipality advertised and filled positions for roughly 100 general workers to render much-needed services to the community. According to the ZCDF, the process of filling the positions was influenced by councillors and deserving applicants were sidelined. It ended with friends and family members of the councillors being appointed, Sikhutshi alleged. Sikhutshi said the appointments should have been made last year, but that the process was stopped by certain councillors who wanted to wait for the regional conference of the ANC to take place. It was only after the conference in November that the process continued. The ZCDF believes that the infighting among factions in the ANC is also reflective of a toxic culture, where the winners get to influence appointment processes. “We are fed-up with corruption and nepotism in this municipality. Some people are occupying positions that they are not qualified for. Workers must be employed according to their credentials, not according to favours. We are going to fight this and we want the vacant positions of directors and managers to be filled immediately,” Sikhuitshi said. The secretary of the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) in the Makhado Municipality, Tsanwani Raduvha said as a union they would investigate the allegations. 