If you’re like most parents, your toddler’s sippy cup hasn’t gotten much thinking beyond whether it’s leakproof and will prevent stains on your child’s clothes, carpet, and car upholstery. However, there are various safety concerns with sippy cup use, ranging from poor cleaning to mouth damage to long-term dental disorders. Here’s everything you need to know to guarantee your toddler’s sippy is as safe as possible. A sippy cup isn’t strictly necessary, but it sure is handy. It is preferable to wean your child off bottles by the age of 18 months. The reasoning behind this is to prevent tooth decay that can occur when children’s teeth are exposed to milk sugars for long periods of time. This is when baby sippy cups tend to become part of the equation. There are some potential benefits to using a baby sippy cup. While sippy cups might not provide the same obvious danger to your child as the chemicals under your sink or a flight of stairs without a baby gate, there are certain risks to using them. Here are some things to keep in mind: Mould: Mould or mildew can grow in your child’s cup due to moisture trapped in the spout, straw, or valve, and the general difficulty of cleaning some models of sippy cups. Mould growth might cause illness or other symptoms in your child if you do not completely clean your child’s sippy cups after each use. Mouth injury: Children regularly visit the emergency room for mouth injuries caused by sippy cup use. The majority of these injuries occur when a child falls while using a sippy cup, so children should only use sippy cups when seated. Improper development: Constantly sipping from a hard spout can alter the development of a child’s mouth cavity. This can affect a child’s speech development, the requirement for orthodontia, and even their quality of sleep and face aesthetics in the long run. Increased health risks: Sippy cups can encourage children to acquire bad behaviours, leading to unfavourable health outcomes such as cavities and obesity. To reduce the hazards to your child’s safety while using a sippy, do the following: 