He will also have a significant hand in the development of both this new T1 machine as well as the forthcoming T1+ class REVO Plus, which is expected to arrive later in 2022. 2005 Class E and 2006 Class D champion, Visser went on to claim the 2010 South African Production Vehicle title in his privately entered Hilux. He then went on to drive a factory Ford Ranger winning the Vryburg 400 in 2014 and ending second in the ’16 Class T championship before racing a privately entered Hilux to an overall win, ahead of all the big factory teams, at the 2019 Botswana Desert 1000 event. The Vryburg farmer and businessman was also recently called up at the last minute to replace Century Racing team owner Mark Corbett in the 2022 Dakar and delivered a charging drive, often running in the top ten through the race, to bring the car home despite several challenges along the way. “I have always been intrigued by the design of the all-new Red-Lined REVO and asked Terence Marsh if I could drive the car,” Visser explained. “So I came to a test and I was blown away by its potential. “I then had the opportunity to race the car in a TIORC event in Vryburg this past weekend and I was easily convinced to race the REVO for the rest of the 2022 season and beyond. “I am delighted to have signed with the team. “Now my trusty navigator Albertus Venter and I can’t wait to race the Red-Lined REVO in this year’s nationals and to develop this race car together with the upcoming REVO Plus project.” “We are hugely excited that Chris Visser has joined the Red-Lined Motorsport family,” team principal Terence Marsh admitted.  “He is a hugely talented and respected driver who brings a wealth of experience and knowledge to the team. “Not only in the races but back at the workshop with the development and testing of our international rally raid cars.
“As a team, we are excited by this development and especially Chris’ initial reaction to the Red-Lined REVO.
“We are certainly looking forward to the rest of the South African Rally Raid season!” Source: MotorsportMedia