LIMPOPO – Makhado Netshiomvani, a Thohoyandou Block F resident in Vhembe, understood that to sit at home and do nothing would not benefit him in any way. He saw an opportunity to start a photography business in his area, and today his business is doing very well with hundreds of clients who support him. The final-year computer science student at the University of Venda said when he realised that photography was a scarce practice in his area, he grabbed the opportunity with both hands and put it to good use. You might want to read: Kgothatso Ntabane “K-arts” shares his passion for photography “It started off by learning how to edit photos, as I would download photos from the internet and edit them. I then bought my first camera, which was a Nikon D3100 and an 18-55mm lens. That’s how it all started for me. Photography really isn’t as easy as it seems and you have to put many hours into learning and practising. The real work, however, comes when you have to implement everything you’ve learned and try to build a client base,” Netshiomvani explained and added his goal is to help as many couples celebrate their wedding by capturing the best parts. “The biggest challenge is probably during the off season when you don’t book as many clients as you’re used to. Then there are times when I experience a creative block. To deal with this block, I have to understand I need a break from photography from time to time. I try to find something else to do, watch a movie, read a book, watch some tutorials and learn something new. Take it one day at a time. It’s okay to watch and learn from other photographers, but never reach a point where you compare your work to theirs, as that might make you feel like you’re not doing enough,” he advised. He told CV his family is very supportive and bought his first camera, as well as help with booking clients too. “I think the secret is humility and knowing how to work with people. At the end of the day photography is a service and should be rendered as such. I’m in control of what I do and how I visually interpret a project, but I also take into consideration that life imitates art. I think my motivation comes from the ability to create art, how I see it and how I’d like it to be seen,” he concluded. 