Today is World No-Tobacco Day – an opportunity to raise awareness of tobacco use’s harmful and deadly effects. In light of World No-Tobacco Day, we look at why smoking around children is so dangerous. In their homes, millions of children are exposed to second-hand smoking. Because your children’s lungs are still developing, second-hand smoke can be extremely detrimental to their health. If you smoke in the presence of your children or if they are exposed to second-hand smoke in other settings, they may be in greater danger than you think. Quitting is the most effective approach to eliminating this exposure. Second-hand smoke is the smoke exhaled by smokers from the burning end of cigarettes, pipes, and cigars. Approximately 4,000 compounds are present in second-hand smoke. More than 50 of these substances have been identified as carcinogens, increasing the risk of cancer. When children inhale second-hand smoke, they are exposed to these toxins. Exposure to second-hand smoking increases the incidence of sudden infant death syndrome in infants. Children who inhale second-hand smoke are more likely to have: Children of smokers cough and wheeze more frequently and have difficulty recovering from colds. In addition, they miss many more school days. Other symptoms of second-hand smoke exposure include a stuffy nose, headache, sore throat, eye discomfort, and hoarseness. Children who grow up with smoking parents are more prone to smoke themselves. Children and adolescents who smoke experience the same health problems as adults. Children exposed to second-hand smoking may have long-term health issues, including: The following tips may help protect your children from second-hand smoking exposure: Stopping smoking is one of the most important things smokers can do for their own health and their children’s health. Quitting is the most effective method to protect your children from second-hand smoking. It may be challenging to quit. Consult your physician or your child’s paediatrician if you need assistance. There are over-the-counter and prescription medications that may assist you in quitting smoking.