“By helping our customers improve the air quality inside their Volvo car, we will help reduce the adverse health effects associated with air pollution, allergens and fine particulates,” said Dr Maria Bernander, occupant health effects expert at Volvo Cars. “In addition to personal health benefits, studies have shown cleaner air can also help boost concentration which can help you stay more focused during the drive.”  Moreover, drivers of the latest Volvo cars will be able to assess whether to purify the air in the cabin of their car with the help of live data that shows actual outdoor pollen and air quality levels in the car’s centre display. This in-house developed app makes Volvo Cars the first car maker to provide live data of outdoor pollen levels to drivers. “By regularly testing and evolving the air purification features in our cars, we can increase our competitive advantage by offering a more comfortable and healthier driving experience,” said Anders Löfvendahl, cabin air quality technical expert and function owner. Cars equipped with the company’s latest air purification technology also come with a sensor, launched globally in 2020 as a world-first feature in Volvo cars, that measures PM 2.5 levels inside the cabin and allows customers to compare those to outside levels.  Indicating the amount of fine particulate matter in the air, PM 2.5 levels are a widely used measure for air quality. Globally, many urban areas suffer from PM 2.5 levels that exceed recommended levels by the World Health Organisation, underlining the need to minimise their impact. Thanks to a synthetic fibre-based filter and ionisation in Volvo Cars’ Advanced Air Cleaner, up to 95% of all PM 2.5 particles are kept out of the cabin in our 60 and 90 series models.  Additionally, the Advanced Air Cleaner can remove more than 97% of airborne viruses that try to enter the cabin via the air filter and remove existing viral levels in the vehicle by up to 95 percent. Results from recent tests performed by the independent Austrian research and testing institute, OFI, show that the viral filtration efficiency of its filter and ioniser makes the technology highly effective against airborne viruses. Source: MotorPress